[{'Date': 'June 24, 2022', 'Header': 'News: OLF members, ONN journalists on trial accused of forming Oromia Transitional Government ask court to change presiding judges', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba: Defendants under the Qasim Abdullahi file, accused of conspiring to form ‘The Oromia National Transitional Government Committee’ and two ONN journalists had an appearance yesterday, at Oromia Supreme court on the 23rd of June, 2022.\xa0'], ['Yesterday’s court hearing in which the 17 accused were present, was one in which a previous request forwarded by their lawyers asking for the presiding judges to be changed due to what they called “a partisan stance of the judge towards the public prosecutor.”\xa0'], ['However, the court has adjourned the next hearing until 28 June 28 to provide the ruling on the request of the defendants.\xa0'], ['During an earlier hearing on May 12, 2022, the accused were charged by the prosecution with the intentional and active act of participating in the usurpation of power, by unconstitutional means. The judge had ordered the prosecutor to amend the charges as such charges were not in line with the law and would also affect the mental state of the accused, and appear on June 2, 2022.\xa0'], ['At the hearing on 02 June, however, the public prosecutor failed to bring to the court the amend charges, prompting the defense team to request for the release of their clients. Instead, the court granted the prosecutor one more chance to amend the charges and adjourned the case for 23 June. '], ['The 17 defendants accused of attempting to form Oromia National Transitional Government were originally arrested on November 13, 2021. They are currently being held at the Dallati prison in Sabata city, in Oromia Regional State, Special Zone Surrounding Finfinne. AS']]}, {'Date': 'June 23, 2022', 'Header': 'News: FAO cautions limited access to fertilizers, seeds in Tigray “major threat” as planting season approaches', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba  – Farmers in parts of northern Ethiopia are in serious danger of losing the main planting season (June-August) if they do not receive urgent support from the international community to sow their fields, which would further deteriorate the already serious food security situation in the region.'], ['With the rainfall outlook foreseen to be favorable, the season offers a crucial and cost-effective opportunity to improve food availability across the region. Most farmers in Tigray have completed land preparation and are waiting for the onset of the rains. However, limited access to agricultural inputs, particularly fertilizers and seeds, is a major threat to the season.\xa0'], ['FAO and its Agriculture Cluster partners are seeking to mobilize $96 million immediately, focusing specifically on the time-sensitive opportunity offered by the Government of Ethiopia to purchase fertilizers at cost price.'], ['Over the last months, FAO and partners have mobilized $11 million, which enables them to meet just 10\xa0percent of needs for fertilizers, leaving a gap of $85 million.\xa0'], ['FAO and partners are also exploring avenues to make 60 000 tonnes of fertilizers and locally-produced seed available to farmers (4\xa0000\xa0tonnes of seed, or 8\xa0percent of the total needs). Given the very short window for planting (end-June to August), the first priority should be given to fertilizer, which is applied three to four weeks after planting.'], ['“The importance of supporting food production in Tigray cannot be overstressed. It is highly unlikely that the region will be able to produce sufficient food for its population without the appropriate seeds and fertilizers. Every dollar invested now in food production has a multiplying effect, and it turns into four to seven dollars worth of food. At the same time, bringing in food assistance at a later stage will be much more expensive,” said David Phiri, FAO Representative for Ethiopia a.i. “At the same time, FAO is advocating to increase financial, material and technical support to other areas affected by the conflict, such as Amhara and Afar. Access to these areas is considerably easier, but material support has not been adequate” he added.\xa0'], [' Without these inputs, the next harvests will not be available before October 2023, extending the hunger season for a further year, and increasing humanitarian food needs even more. '], ['If support is provided in time for the Meher planting season, families will be able to harvest and start consuming staple foods by October 2022. These harvests would cover their food needs for at least six months, and in the best case scenario, up to the next harvest for significant proportion of the households, with surplus to sell. The vegetables produced during the off-season would further reinforce their food security.'], ['Without these inputs, the next harvests will not be available before October 2023, extending the hunger season for a further year, and increasing humanitarian food needs even more.'], ['“We are in the midst of the critical planting season. There is a small window of opportunity to prevent severe hunger by supporting local production and averting a potential increase in humanitarian food needs over the next year,” said Rein Paulsen, Director of the FAO Office of Emergencies and Resilience. “The successful planting season will also support recovery efforts and the sustainable return of displaced families and secure food in urban areas”.\xa0'], ['In 2021, Tigray’s farmers produced 900 000 tonnes of staple foods, accounting for 40 percent of normal production, equivalent to seven to eight months of annual cereal needs for the region. With limited humanitarian assistance and commercial supplies, the rainfed crops and irrigated vegetables have been key to the survival of Tigray’s rural families, including some 1.8 million internally displaced people, about 60 percent of whom reside within host communities.'], ['The production in 2021 was possible because farmers had access to improved seeds and fertilizers provided by the Government and Agriculture Cluster partners.\xa0FAO']]}, {'Date': 'June 20, 2022', 'Header': '#ASDailyScoop: Ministry working to get sports betting in Ethiopia banned', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – The Ministry of Women and Social Affairs announced that it is working to get sports betting in Ethiopia banned.'], ['Abebe Haimanot, a representative of the Ministry’s Youth Personnel Development Directorate, told state media that works were underway to get sports betting banned taking into consideration the issue of youth and youth personality development as well as various economic and social crises the sector is causing.'], ['He said that although various discussion forums and movements have been organized to push for an end of sports betting, due to various reasons, such forums are not being adequately conducted.'], ['Abebe further said that based on a series of surveys conducted by the ministry at various times, sports betting is identified as posing a risk to young people and youths alike.'], ['The Ministry has started by classifying sports betting as gambling, the official said, which has multifaceted problems in itself.“Gambling brings a social crisis that can take teenagers and adults into unwanted paths,” he said, adding that it also “discourages” anyone from working and changing lives, which can also lead to the disintegration of the family. Furthermore, Abebe said the sector also causes various psychological problems such as “depression and suicidal thoughts,” and called on all concerned stakeholders to take timely measures against it.'], ['The Ministry already announced its plans to ban sports betting a few months ago, but 05 March betting firms requested the government to reconsider its plans before taking actions. The firms argued “betting is not gambling.”'], ['“We are receiving a lot of negative comments from the community about sports betting. But that is not true. We are legally licensed by the National Lottery and we are also obeying our social responsibility,” Vegas Sport Betting Executive Director, Yonas G. Alemu told local media.'], ['Sports betting is a relatively new phenomena in Ethiopia which had gained traction in recent years. AS']]}, {'Date': 'June 18, 2022', 'Header': '#Innovation: Jimma University students assemble fuel manufacturing machine in times of national, global shortage', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba: Jimma Institute of Technology announced that graduating students of the 2022 Mechanical Engineering class produced a machine that utilized inputs of plastic to output fuel.\xa0\xa0'], ['It has been said that the fuel is made from recycled plastic which is heated and produces fuel in the end through a process called pyrolysis. Furthermore, indicating that such an innovation would have great contributions toward alleviating the fuel shortages being faced at the national level.\xa0'], ['In trials attempted to date, three kilos of plastic material were able to deliver three liters of fuel, which laid hopes for broader production levels in the future, according to the engineering students.\xa0'], ['In expanded views of its other benefits, the sustainability of the environment was one in which plastic that would otherwise be polluting nature would be employed towards positive ends.\xa0'], ['The institute implied that the product had been tested and proven applicable for generators, basic vehicles, and simple house appliances.\xa0\xa0'], ['The students in concern expressed an intent to collaborate with the manufacturer and customer in order to enhance the potential of the innovation and also thanked the university for the support it afforded them. AS']]}, {'Date': 'June 17, 2022', 'Header': 'Profile: What can schools learn from Muday’s devotion for inclusion of children in need?', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Etenesh Abera @EteneshAb'], ['Addis Abeba – It was in 2001 when Muday Mitiku graduated from Kotebe Teacher’s College in Education and opened a preschool across the street from the college at her young age. Muday and her partner opened a private preschool academy. Muday is a founder of The Muday Association and is serving as the Executive Director of Fresh and Green Academy and the Mother’s Cooperative. Muday is married to Anteneh Legese, with whom she has three daughters and many adopted children.'], ['The school enrolled students who are capable of the monthly payment but Muday decided to enroll the street children from the surrounding without payment since they were ready to join the school. “While I was on my way from work to home I encountered less fortunate families on the street along with their children who were supposed to join the school. These families were incapable of paying even for government schools that askes for very minimal amounts of money,” says Muday as she tells her story going back to when she started her charitable work.'], ['She then decided to accept street children and provide them with meals and school uniforms along with the regular students from paying families. Discomfort however came from some families who don’t want their children to sit with the street children. But there were still few who said it was okay as long as it didn’t harm the education environment in the school. After a while though, Muday completely changed the school to be a home for orphanages and vulnerable street children including their mothers as part of her dream to empower women.'], ['The Muday charity was virtually funded by Muday’s personal income, which sets it apart from similar charities and local non-governmental organizations. “When you establish a charitable organization back in the days, for most people, it seemed like a means of personal business that you profit from it in the name of the less fortunate, although it has changed now. However, from experience we know that the exact fund that reaches the needy is not more than 10 percent of the whole fund raised,” says Muday.'], ['The charity association became popular when it got an operational license in 2012, as Muday Association was formed becoming a registered charity in Ethiopia and has been working for more than 22 years now. She adds, “We merely took the license as a charity association because donors cannot support us legally while we have a profitable business organization license.”'], ['Muday also said that in the current years, the changing attitudes of society about volunteering in such organizations, proactively encouraging such endeavors. “Love week is another method in which the center appreciates volunteerism in the society. It is an annual week-long event in where our 650 children meet professionals of different backgrounds and be optimistic for their future while appreciating the volunteerism.” she explains.'], ['Empowering mothers'], ['In more than 22 years of service, Muday empowered more than 1300 mothers directly. Inside the association compound more than 750 children, mothers, and elderly live together while more than 350 children are supported outside the compound living with their families. “The 1300 mothers have become financially independent by launching their own businesses or being employed somewhere after taking training from our training center. We have further supported more than 5000 students for different specific reasons, in addition to about 100 students who graduated from college and university.”'], ['The founder highlighted the ‘forgotten pandemic HIV’, Muday said it is one of the many challenges she encountered in her association. “Currently, we have 450 mothers in which more than 75 percent of them are HIV patients who were sex workers and street beggars. My first adopted son was also HIV positive, alienated from the local society, and lost his mother to the virus. I am glad he will graduate this year.” she said. Her fear is that since the problem is not spoken out properly, many are losing their lives to the virus. In connection to this, regarding medications, she indicated they are working with government health centers.'], ['For Muday, working with prostitutes and needy women is a priority because she believes that they are the foundations to many families in different ways. Muday to this aspect said, “Most of my staff are from those vulnerable parts of the society.” During the interview, Addis Standard observed trainers of different traditional waving and production of materials inside the small compound and small showroom in which products are ready for display and sale.'], ['Challenges'], ['One of the very recent challenges of the Association that has a broader extent is the advancement of Covid-19. “Our association has survived for the last 22 years because it was funded by another business of mine which is baking and exporting injera, traditional outfits, and preparing spices,” said Muday. Unfortunately, Covid-19 forced them to quit the export and depend on volunteer individuals who were themselves tested by the expensive living cost and with the mercy of the other remaining businesses run by her. Inside her business, she employed more than 1000 individuals who are supporting the charity work indirectly.'], ['According to Muday, her sole wish is to make the charity association continue her legacy even if she is not around. “This place is a rental house, and we are paying 180,000 ETB per month. The owners gave us a second warning to leave the place until March 2022, our deadline. What we need is a permanent solution before March 2022, otherwise, we will be forced to dissolve the center that would leave the elderly, mothers, and children to find themselves back on the streets.”'], ['Muday sadly recalled that there were some elders who decided to commit suicide last June out of frustrations of going back to the streets when the first warning from the house owners came.'], ['Last April, Addis Abeba’s Mayor, Adanche Abiebie, promised to provide land and build a shelter which, however, has not yet happened to be practical from their end, according to Muday. “We are grateful for the financial support from the Mayor, but we dearly need the land since we are running out of time and March 2022 is very close,” Muday says that the city cabinet was allocated land, but it has not yet been freed from former settlers of the identified land.'], ['If they get the land, Muday says she wants to build a temporary shelter for immediate use and a transitional period, until they build a proper building. She said, “This issue of the land should not be my only burden, rather everyone is responsible.” The founder of the charity association is courageous enough to be an example for others, as to make it possible to run a charity organization from your own resources.'], ['Likewise, the number of internally displaced people is the other challenge for Muday. ”I don’t know the exact reason but Internally displaced elders are coming in huge numbers from time to time. As you can see we don’t have enough places to be a shelter for them because we will feed them on a daily basis. Our homes are open for volunteers.’’'], ['Where can I go from my home?'], ['Selamawit (Name changed) is a mother of two, staying in the association for more than ten years. ’’I am working as a babysitter for children including my own son. Muday is a mother to all of us. That’s the word. I have nothing to add.’’ Selamawit brokenheartedly replied when asked where would they go if they are to lose the place they are staying. “Where can I go from home? The government should give us a solution,’’ said Selamawit with a tearful eye. AS']]}]
[{'Date': 'June 16, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Save the Children cautions over soaring child malnutrition across east, south-eastern Ethiopia', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – Malnutrition rates across east and south-eastern Ethiopia have soared in recent months as drought, displacement and conflict take their toll with about\xa0185,000 children\xa0now estimated to be suffering from the most deadly form of malnutrition, Save the Children said.'], ['A prolonged drought combined with the disruption of health services due to instability, the\xa0 COVID-19 pandemic, and a lack of funding has left\xa0over a million people\xa0requiring urgent nutrition support across the Somali, Oromia, SNNP and South-West regions.'], ['Extreme malnutrition is expected to worsen in coming months as food prices continue to rise due to the devaluation of the Ethiopian birr and the war in Ukraine, while pastoral families’ livestock continues to be devalued as one of the worst droughts in history in the Horn of Africa decimates their herds.'], ['In the Somali region in Eastern Ethiopia, one of the worst affected by the drought, malnutrition rates over the past 12\xa0months have risen by 64%, with an increase of 43% between January and April 2022 alone. Cumulative cases of severe acute malnutrition – the most deadly form of malnutrition in children – reached nearly 50,000 in the same three months.'], ['Severe acute malnutrition is a life-threatening condition requiring urgent treatment. It also significantly weakens children’s immune systems, which often means any additional medical complications or infections prove deadly.\xa0'], ['In the Dawa zone of the Somali region Save the Children staff have observed that much of the pastoral nomadic community is ‘at the brink of starvation’. Admission rates for the treatment of malnutrition at Save the Children nutrition centers increased by more than 320% from September 2021 to January 2022. Families are reporting that many children are only being fed one meal per day.'], ['In the Shabelle zone of the Somali region, another area hard hit by drought and hunger, unusual animal behavior has been reported by farming communities, including monkeys attacking children and livestock out of hunger.'], ['Ahmed*, 40, is a father of seven who lives in the Somali region of Ethiopia. Ahmed recently lost his livestock in the drought, and so left his village with his children in search of food and water. Ahmed said:“I do not know how to feed my children. The rain failed. The grass withered. My sheep and goats died, along with hundreds and thousands of animals from our village. We packed our meager possessions on the donkey cart and set out at midnight.”'], ['In the south and the east, prolonged drought continues to expand and devastate lives and livelihoods, with\xa0about\xa08.1 million people in Ethiopia\xa0now impacted. Across the country, close to 30 million people – or a quarter of the population – are estimated to be in need of humanitarian assistance including\xa012 million children.'], [' “A prolonged, expanding, and debilitating drought is grinding away at their resilience, already worn down by a grueling conflict and two years of the COVID-19 pandemic.” '], ['Ethiopia and other Horn of Africa countries – Somalia and Kenya-\xa0are\xa0suffering from a severe climate crisis-induced drought.\xa0 More than\xa023 million people\xa0are experiencing extreme hunger across the three countries with 5.8 Million children acutely malnourished.'], ['Xavier Joubert, Save the Children’s Country Director in Ethiopia, said: “Children – especially small children – are bearing the brunt of a harrowing and multifaceted crisis in Ethiopia. A prolonged, expanding, and debilitating drought is grinding away at their resilience, already worn down by a grueling conflict and two years of the COVID-19 pandemic.”'], ['Joubert further said that “sadly, in 2022, the crisis in Ethiopia grew in complexity and scale. In the south and the east, prolonged drought is devastating lives and livelihoods; in the north, millions of displaced families barely have access to food, health services, livelihoods; and in the southwest, a hidden conflict is displacing hundreds of thousands.”'], ['“Families who have fled drought or conflict have left with very little, some only with their children and clothes on their backs. Though some families are returning home, they find their houses, hospitals, and schools damaged or destroyed, and their livelihoods lost.”'], ['Save the Children is urgently calling on donors for new funds to meet the needs of children and their families across Ethiopia. The child rights’ agency was one of the first organizations to work in the conflict in the north, and have response plans throughout the country.\xa0'], ['Save the Children teams in the Somali and Oromia regions are helping thousands of families impacted by drought, but additional funding is urgently needed to expand activities to match the exponential humanitarian needs.'], ['Save the Children has been operating in Ethiopia for over 60 years and was amongst the first respondents to the conflict in Tigray, Amhara and Afar regions, while continuing humanitarian assistance to the prolonged humanitarian crises in Oromia and Somali regions. The organization’s work is heavily anchored on health and nutrition\xa0 as well as life-saving water and sanitation assistance, protection services, education support, and cash and in-kind distributions to the most vulnerable children and their families.'], ['*Names changed to protect identities']]}, {'Date': 'June 15, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Armyworms spread to seven zones, three special woredas in SNNP state, cover more than 334 ha land', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – The Southern Nations, Nationalities and People’s Region (SNNPR) Agriculture Bureau said the new arrivals of armyworms have settled on, and affected 334,760 hectares of land in seven zones and three special woredas of the state.'], ['SNNP regional state Agriculture Bureau Crop Development and Protection Director, Wondimagegne Hailemariam, said that in addition to the seven zones, three special woredas of the state have been affected by the spread.'], ['This came two weeks after the influx of Armyworm migrants devoured more than 3,000 hectares of crops in Ethiopia’s Southwest Regional State. The region’s agriculture bureau said that the spread had caused damages on 3,363 hectares of land in four zones of the state: Bench Sheko, West Omo, Konta and Dawro Zones; of these zones, the damage in Bench Sheko zone was registered as severe.'], [' The ongoing outbreak affected farmlands belonging to 28, 219 farmers, of whom 26,953 are men and 3,158 are women farmers. '], ['Now the influx has spread to seven zones the SNNP regional state, Wondimagegn said. They are: South Omo, Gamo, Konso, Gofa, Kambata Tambaro, Silte and Gedeo zones. Further more, three special woredas in the region: Derashe, Ale and Basketo, are also affected by the spread.'], ['However, both regional states did not clarify if the variety is the fall armyworm (FAW), known by its scientific name “Spodoptera frugiperda.” Although a separate statement from the Southwest Regional State Communication Bureau two weeks ago referred to the pests as “African Armyworm,” so far there is no statement issued from the federal government on the classification of the armyworm.  '], ['Latest information suggests #Armyworm is expanding at alarming rate in #Ethiopia, Please see our interactive map for more pic.twitter.com/ByzkEoChtO'], ['FAW was “first reported on the African continent in early 2016.” The UN’s Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) Ethiopia office said in 2017 that, after it first appeared in the last week of February 2017, the disease had infested “approximately a quarter of the 2.6 million hectares of land planted with maize.”'], ['Wondimagegn of the SNNP said that the ongoing outbreak appeared on 322,204 hectares of sugarcane plantation in the seven zones of the state, affecting farmlands belonging to 28, 219 farmers, of whom 26,953 are men and 3,158 are women farmers.'], ['Pest control work has been carried out by the bureau on areas covering 10,73 hectares of land, Wondimagegn said adding that 4,556 liters of liquid pesticides have been sprayed on a total of 4,556 hectares of land, whereas works of clearing by the community were conducted on 5,517 hectares of land.'], ['However, due to the uneven rain patterns seen during this Belg season (the small rainy season) Wondmagegne said the weather pattern has created favorable condition for the spread of the armyworms, especially in the dry lowlands areas of the region.'], ['He cautioned that the monitoring and control of the spread to more areas should be intensified, including using traditional methods of prevention. AS']]}, {'Date': 'June 10, 2022', 'Header': 'Analysis: Border clashes, political unrest tower over drought in Fentalle woreda; Karrayyu community accuses local officials of obstructing aid as retribution for dissent', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Natnael Fite @NatieFit'], ['Addis Abeba: The residents of Fentalle woreda in the East Showa zone, Oromia region said that prolonged drought is affecting the community and that the government turned a blind eye to their plights. Several members of the Karrayyu community told Addis Standard that the impact of the drought is worsening due to the encroachment by armed groups from the neighboring Amhara region coupled with the political instability that followed the killing of members of the Karrayyu Gadaa Michilee leaders in December last year. The residents who detailed the continued crackdown on the Karrayyu community also disclosed that the local administration said, “There will be no aid activities until you all are put in line.”\xa0'], ['A resident of the woreda who did not want to be named for security reasons, told Addis Standard about the complicated dilemmas of the people, “This drought is different, it took a lot out of us. Currently, four Kebeles including Haro Qarsa and Ilala are fully devoid of their residents. The severity of the drought has caused many people to flee to the neighboring Boset woreda in search of fodder.\xa0 Some search fodder at Matahara sugar factory in case they find sugarcane branches.”\xa0\xa0'], [' “People used to regard Abba Gadaas as keepers of their cattle. After the killings, the government accuses us of being terrorists, and causes people to live in fear and flee the area.“'], ['According to residents, the drought lasted for more than 5 months and there is a shortage of rain, causing serious concerns. “This is a tough season, the sun is scorching and our cattle have nothing to eat. We buy fodder for our cattle but people have nothing to buy and eat. Additionally, irrigated villages are also affected by this drought, even though relatively they might be better off. We will not give up hope on God, but we don’t think the upcoming rainy season will bring us rain and heal our cattle, he said.'], ['Another resident of the Fentalle district, Fayisa (name changed for security concerns), said that this year’s drought was not like the one that happened in 2002 He explained that this is a pervasive drought that has affected all 18 kebeles in the woreda. People are fleeing the Fentalle district and going to the Dongorre area in Bosset woreda, even facing more difficulties there as they are forcefully conscripted into the military.\xa0'], ['Another resident whose name was withheld for purposes of security reasons said, the border clashes between the Karrayyu community and armed groups from the Minjar Shenkor woreda of the North Showa zone in the Amhara region have worsened the drought and its effects. He detailed, “Haro Qarsa,Tututi, and Ilala kebeles including the village of Qorke land were claimed by the Minjar Shenkor community. They have all been abandoned by residents who used to live in them, for over three months. The cattle are dying despite the presence of water and grass in those places which are now inaccessible to our community.\xa0 There\xa0 is a correlation between drought and border conflicts.”\xa0'], ['Similarly, Feyisa stated that the instability between the boundaries of the Amhara region and Afar has worsened the drought. Speaking in detail, he said, “Militants operating under the name ‘Fano’ crossing over from the Amhara region, into the Qorke area, have prevented from moving freely and allow their cattle to graze grass and drink water causing the people to flee to Matahara sugar factory. This problem is overwhelming and difficult to estimate.’’\xa0'], ['Roba Ibrahim, whose name was also altered for security reasons, lives in Matahara town, Fentalle district. Conversing with Addis Standard on how the deaths of the Abba Gadas exacerbated the drought, he said, ‘’People used to regard Abba Gadaas as keepers of their cattle. After the killings, the government accuses us of being terrorists, and causes people to live in fear and flee the area.’’\xa0\xa0'], ['“Militants operating under the name ‘Fano’ crossing over from the Amhara region, into Qorke area, have prevented us from moving freely and allow our cattle to graze.”  '], ['Roba went on to say that following the killings, the government’s attitude vis-a-vis the people has changed and adversely affected the response efforts to mitigate the drought. “After the deaths of the Abba Gadas, the national politics has become insufferable for the Karrayyu. Recently, Oromia Special forces took away 5 children under 18, children who were herding cattle in the neighboring Bosset Woreda. It has become common to recover bodies in the woods,” he continued, “We don’t know where these children are. Children who are not old enough for politics were taken and killed by special forces. We buried the dead, but till now, we don’t know the whereabouts of these missing children.”'], ['Fentalle’s residents commented that there is a clear lack of aid delivery for the Karrayyu community. Roba said that at this moment in time, there has not been any help reaching the people suffering from the consequences of the drought. “There isn’t a single person offering water. No person has brought food for the cattle. There isn’t a single person who said I want to stand beside you in such troubling times. The government doesn’t speak, aid organizations also have abandoned us. The people are suffering in solitude,” he exclaimed.\xa0'], ['“The administration of the zone, relating things with the political issues, has denied access to aid organizations. They call the elders in the city and lie to them by saying we are with you and deceive the people in the rural areas,” Roba added.\xa0He stated that for this reason,” The government has restricted access for non-governmental organizations to enter. If the government fails to bring grass from other areas, NGOs that used to operate in the area in the past, namely the Gudina Tumsa Foundation, which requested for Labata Fentalle project which was stopped because of instability, to have the road reopened so that the cattle could be rescued, but they were given negative responses in return.’’'], ['Like Roba, Fayisa said that there has been no response from the government as well as from individuals. He recalled, “During the drought in 2002, the government provided support in the form of grass, water, and sand to the people. However, there is not one single form of assistance now, except for small offers of water. Except for organizations trying to provide water through tankers, there has not been any organizational support either. Even the company that is trying to help can’t reach many people due to insecurity, that’s all we know thus far.”'], ['An official from the Bureau of Disaster and Risk management in the Fentalle district, Talila Gebeyehu, said that after the drought that lasted from October till February, the local administration supplied the byproducts of the Metehara sugar factory (burnt sugar cane)\xa0 for the cattle.\xa0“Right now, the factory can’t provide burnt sugarcane, that was our only option, now 18 villages are in big trouble. We worked with property owners to mitigate this problem by providing some amounts of the factory’s byproduct until recently, however, lately, there has been nothing that was given to the cattle,’’ he said.\xa0'], [' “We are waiting on the response of higher officials after informing them the situation is beyond our capacity.” '], ['“Besides this, we have written letters to relevant regional and zonal offices and different governmental offices as well as NGOs detailing that the drought situation is extremely worrying and that we need an immediate solution, explained the official. “We are waiting on the response of higher officials after informing them the situation is beyond our capacity, ‘’ he said.\xa0 Additionally, he said he was not in possession of the stats regarding the number of people and cattle affected by the drought.\xa0'], ['In January, the former head of the Disaster and Risk Bureau, Gadisa Barcho, stated that the drought had affected all eighteen kebeles in Fentalle woreda and even started spreading to the remaining villages across the Awash River. He told Addis Standard at the time that many cattle are struggling to gain access to grass and water, and even dying in some places.\xa0'], ['Attempts by Addis Standard to contact the administration of the Fentalle woreda, as well as the Commissioner Garamu Oliqa of the Disaster Risk commission of the Oromia region, were not successful. AS\xa0\xa0']]}, {'Date': 'June 10, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Ethiopian migrants head home on first ever return flight from Yemen’s Ma’rib', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – For the first time ever, 150 Ethiopian migrants are flying to Addis Abeba on a Voluntary Humanitarian Return (VHR) flight from Yemen’s conflict-affected Ma’rib governarate, the UN migration agency, IOM, said on Thursday.'], ['It is the first of several flights that the International Organization for Migration (IOM) has planned to help 900 Ethiopians flee the Arabian Peninsula in the coming month.'], ['“Migrants stranded in Ma’rib are living in fear,” said Christa Rottensteiner,\xa0IOM\xa0Yemen’s Chief of Mission. “Many are under the control of smuggling groups who subject migrants to exploitation and violence.”'], ['While thousands wait in dire conditions for this same chance to return home, IOM requires $7.5 million to keep the flights running from Ma’rib and Aden.'], ['“The cost of inaction is far greater than the cost of helping those who are stranded and desperate to leave a dire situation,” said Ms. Rottensteiner.'], ['With its urban center located some 25 kilometers from the nearest frontline, Ma’rib has been one of the main hotspots of Yemen’s seven-year conflict.'], ['The governorate faces the highest levels of displacement in the country, having had nearly one million Yemenis displaced there since the start of the conflict.'], ['In recent years, it has also become a transit point for migrants making their way toward Saudi Arabia.'], ['An estimated 4,500 migrants stranded in Ma’rib have been unable to cross dangerous frontlines to reach their destination, or held by smugglers against their will for prolonged periods.'], ['Some have been seeking a way to safely leave Yemen for two years.\xa0Women migrants in Ma’rib are particularly vulnerable, frequently reporting violations, including sexual violence.'], ['While living without access to adequate healthcare, food and other basic needs, some fall pregnant and must find ways to care for infants.'], ['In addition to flights,\xa0IOM\xa0is providing registration and documentation services, medical consultations, as well as safe accommodations, to ensure the protection of traveling migrants prior to take-off.'], ['Upon arrival, they are also provided with accommodation at the\xa0IOM\xa0transit center, cash for onward travel to their home community, family tracing and reunification, medical screening and psychosocial support.'], ['In responding to the needs of the returnees, IOM has aligned its humanitarian assistance and protection services with the 2022\xa0Regional Migrant Response Plan for the Horn of Africa and Yemen.'], ['“We urgently need greater support from donors to help move people out of danger’s way,” said IOM\xa0Yemen’s mission chief.'], ['The United States and Norway are supporting scheduled VHR flights from Ma’rib. UN/IOM']]}, {'Date': 'June 8, 2022', 'Header': 'News: US appreciates fed. gov, Afar and Tigray authorities for increased humanitarian supply; calls for essential services restoration', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba –  The United States government “welcomes the progress in securing more regular access for humanitarian assistance to communities in need in the Afar, Amhara, and Tigray regions and appreciated the federal government and authorities in Afar and Tigray regional states for their “cooperation” to facilitate the delivery of this assistance. The U.S. also appreciated “efforts of the United Nations agencies, international organizations, U.S. government partners, and humanitarian organizations across Ethiopia.” '], ['In a statement released last night, the US government said “in the past seven days, more than 1,100 trucks have reached Tigray to deliver life-saving food, malnutrition treatment and health supplies, and other essential relief items to those who are most vulnerable as a result of the hard work of all the humanitarians committed to saving lives.” '], ['While encouraging the parties “to continue to build on this momentum and advance to talks to achieve a sustainable end of conflict”, the US also called for the “immediate restoration of essential services in conflict-affected areas and support an inclusive political process to provide security and prosperity for all Ethiopians, and accountability for human rights violations committed by all parties.” '], ['Despite repeated calls, essential services in Tigray, including telecom and banking, remain disconnected. '], ['According to the latest figure from the UNOCHA, “over 193,000 people received food in Tigray compared to 80,000 people the previous week as stock availability improved. In total, about 512,000 people received food since 1 April, following an interruption of more than three months. The report also cautioned that “the fuel reserve in Tigray remains very limited, severely hindering humanitarian operations.” '], ['The report also said nutrition partners alone “need about 24,000 liters of fuel to dispatch available nutrition supplies, including lifesaving therapeutic milk and ready to use therapeutic and supplementary foods, to about 240 health facilities across the region.” '], [' Afar state alleged that within two days “20 trucks” carrying “more than 5,000 liters of unauthorized fuel” were intercepted by Serdo customs '], ['However, this week, Demeke Mekonnen, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, accused aid agencies of making “…efforts to transport more fuel than allowed and some banned equipment that can be used to carry out the terror group’s aims.” He also cautioned that “special attention should be given to prevent equipment from being transferred to the TPLF.” '], ['On Tuesday o8 June, two days after the accusation by FM Demeke, the Afar regional state media reported that regional authorities seized “more than 5,000 liters of illegal fuel” being transported “into Tigray State.”'], ['The report alleged that within two days “20 trucks” carrying “more than 5,000 liters of unauthorized fuel” were intercepted by Serdo customs. The report said that the trucks were also carrying “humanitarian aid” destined for Tigray. AS']]}]
[{'Date': 'June 2, 2022', 'Header': '#ASDailyScoop: Bridge connecting two zones in Oromia, Somali states repaired after two years', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – The bridge connecting the Dawa zone of the Somali regional state with the Eastern Guji zone of the Oromia region has been rebuilt and inaugurated by high officials from both zones, reports said.\xa0'], ['The bridge was rendered dysfunctional due to damages caused by heavy rains that befell both zones in 2019, according to the report.\xa0 Mohammed Qeyu, the Deputy Administrator of the Dawa zone, said that the reopening of the bridge would be significantly beneficial in terms of inter-communal relations, commercial mobility, and traffic flow.\xa0Members of the Ethiopian National Defense Forces (ENDF) and regional security personnel were present at the inauguration ceremony alongside Ugaas, Abba Gadas, and elders who commented that the Galun-Melka- Guba bridge, which connects Hudat woreda in the Dawa zone with Negele in East Guji zone, would be of huge positive impact for Somali-Oromo integration and communal relations. AS']]}, {'Date': 'June 1, 2022', 'Header': 'Analysis: Drought hits Ethiopia again but climate change not only culprit', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Bileh Jelan @BilehJelan'], ['East Bale\xa0– “People are in trouble down here, all the way from Darako up to Sawwena, they have left their homes to find better pasture and water sources,” Aliyi Sheik Osman told Addis Standard. A resident of Rayitu woreda, in east Bale zone, Oromia regional state, Aliyi says “there is nothing there and what the government is doing is not enough, imagine demanding water and getting less than 10 liters of it. The food they provide is not sufficient and can’t hold a family, which happens to be large in these areas, until the end of any given month.”'], ['Aliyi is just one of the dozens of residents Addis Standard\xa0spoke to during an assignment trip to East Bale zone.'], ['But the climate-induced drought is not the only culprit ravaging the communities down there. Multiple accounts from eyewitnesses who spoke with Addis Standard reveal marginalization, poor governance and corruption are exacerbating the already dire situation. \xa0'], ['“There is nothing there and what the government is doing is not enough, imagine demanding water and getting less than 10 liters of it. The food they provide is not sufficient and can’t hold a family, which happens to be large in these areas, until the end of any given month.”'], ['Among a dozen interviewees Addis Standard was able to capture, the story of Fatima Siraj, 28, and a mother of two, is one that speaks to the government’s neglect to the crisis. Fatima is originally from Eglo. Her husband was arrested in the wave of massive government crackdown that swept Oromia in the aftermath of the assassination of famous Oromo artist Hachalu Hundessa on 29 June 2020. Regardless of her own ordeal. Fatima, like many other women in the area, took on the sole responsibilities of taking care of orphans in her community whose parents have either died of the drought or conflict for scarce resources between pastoralist communities.'], ['Recalling the circumstances that brought her to Sawwena, Fatima said: “We own a small piece of land that my husband and I used to farm and earn a living from. But since my husband was arrested two years ago and the rain started to gradually fall short, I couldn’t do much to carry on the work of the farm alone, and I couldn’t find water anywhere since water sources like seasonal rivers and lakes started to dry up.”'], [' “Please do not get me started on that. We ask Allah to bless us with rain so we can go back to our areas and stop asking them (Oromia Regional Government) for anything. They didn’t do so much for us all these years. Why would we expect them to do so now?”'], ['Fatima took her two children and four other orphaned kids she she is taking care of from her area and left for Sawwena on foot, a 30 km walk. “Imagine walking around with six children, in an empty and dusty road, fearing for your life all along. Thankfully someone who had a truck saw me and gave me a ride to Sawwena,” she recalled her arduous journey. When asked about the reason she came to Sawwena, Fatima said, “Because we were told that this is where they distribute aid. I was able to leave with these children but many are stuck in the dire situation which you might have heard of.”'], ['Discussing the aid provided by the regional government, Fatima said, “Please do not get me started on that. We ask Allah to bless us with rain so we can go back to our areas and stop asking them (Oromia Regional Government) for anything. They didn’t do so much for us all these years. Why would we expect them to do so now?”'], ['For decades, food insecurity has been leaving a trail bitter impact predominantly during the dry seasons of the Horn of Africa, where drought prevails year after year, devastating millions in the wake severe lack of food and water.'], ['Way before it recovers from the ravages of desert locust infestation since April 2020, the 2021 drought that hit the Horn of Africa is classified as the worst drought in decades leaving millions in parts of Ethiopia, Kenya, and Somalia between life and death.'], ['According to the Famine Early Warning Systems Network (FEWS NET), the Horn of Africa region is facing the third consecutive below-average rainfall season since late 2020, which is expected to intensify the ongoing drought and significantly worsen food insecurity through at least mid-2022. Multiple regional and global forecast models concur that October to December 2022 rainfall will be below average, primarily due to negative Indian Ocean Dipole and La Niña conditions.'], ['Data from FEWS NET further illustrates that research on historical climate patterns suggest elevated chances of a fourth consecutive below-average rainfall season from March to May 2022. The region last witnessed a four-season drought in 2016/2017, which led to severe acute food insecurity in the eastern Horn.'], ['Currently, up to 20 million people in Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia, and Uganda will need food assistance through mid-2022 due not only to the impacts of drought, but also conflict, insecurity, and economic challenges, including the complex humanitarian emergency in northern Ethiopia.'], ['Similarly, report by Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) underlines that droughts in the Horn of Africa have been increasing in severity and frequency, aggravated by climate change, desertification, and land degradation. The prolonged drought and its impact in Ethiopia, however, is exacerbated by the current security and economic crisis that consumed much of the government’s attention. The crisis is further compounded by unsuccessful agricultural strategies that could not yet serve to ensure food security or improved water accessibility to areas affected by scarcity of rain predominantly in Oromia and Somali regions.'], ['A recent report revealed a shocking number of more than a million livestock that perished in the Somali regional state alone, one of the worst hit regions in the country. (According to the U.N., Oromia. Somali,South West and Southern Nations, Nationalities and People’s (SNNP) are the most devastated regional state in Ethiopia.) \xa0'], ['Early data shows more than 70, 000 livestock have died in eastern Ethiopia alone, while wildlife that survived are increasingly migrating in search of pastor and water. \xa0'], ['Addis Standard online has been providing a series of coverage on drought hit areas in both Oromia and Somali regions. Residents of both regions complain of lack of proper response and in the Borana zone of the Oromia region went as far as accusing the regional government of exacerbating the effects of the drought. Something a local official at the time admitted to.'], ['Now, it is getting worse. According to a report released by the UNOCHA on 07 February 2022: “The drought is compromising fragile livelihoods heavily reliant on livestock and causing a worsening food security and nutrition while eroding coping strategies for the most vulnerable.”'], [' “The drought is compromising fragile livelihoods heavily reliant on livestock and causing a worsening food security and nutrition while eroding coping strategies for the most vulnerable.”'], ['The number of livestock dying from lack of food and water is staggering and increasing by the day. The U.N. says the high number of livestock deaths is an “important indicator” of this alarming situation. The numbers reported by January 2022 have by far exceeded the estimates from 2021, and U.N.’s estimate indicates that additional two million livestock is at risk across affected areas.'], ['Whereas the drought’s devastating impact is visible in the trail of corpses of livestock it is leaving behind from Somali to Oromia to SNNP, multiple data by U.N. organizations and FEWS NET show that more than 6.8 million people across the drought-affected areas in Ethiopia are in dire need of humanitarian assistance.'], ['Both regional and federal governments claim that they are coordinating sufficient responses to mitigate the impacts of the drought. But several residents of affected areas where Addis Standard traveled to say that they are not getting the support they need.'], ['East Bale zone is hit hard by the drought this year than it ever experienced in decades; the drought was a result of a shortage in rainfall over the course of three rainy seasons. As a result, thousands of people were displaced or are living in critical conditions where the threat of starvation is looming, while thousands of livestock have already perished.'], ['The East Bale zone neighbors the Somali region and has access roads via the Ginnir-Imi route. With the exception of Ginnir woreda, all woredas in the zone are affected by the drought. This is due to their geographic location as lowlands and their proximity to the Somali region. Seasonal rivers have dried up including the major Wabi river (a different seasonal river not to be confused with the Wabe river), and farmlands went dry as the absence of water threatens to worsen the situation.'], ['Aliy, the man quoted in the start of this story, has lost all that he has. But he is not the only one. Kedir Ibrahim, 48, did too. “I came from Katta, I left because of the drought and because they told us there were better opportunities in Sawwena,” Kedir says. “I lost all my cattle, all 25 of them. We asked the government two rainy seasons ago to install water projects to help us as many [of us] predicted the drought but they did not listen to us.”'], ['The government is now distributing one kilo of wheat flour, one kilo of Teff and some water “that doesn’t even come to 20 liters and expect us to lead a normal life,” he says, “I have a family of four, how is that even possible?”'], ['Jamal Mohammed and Kedir Adam, 40 and 41, respectively, are both from rural areas in Rayitu woreda and were able to reach Sawwena in their desperate attempts to go to Bale-Robe, where the rainfall was modest and opportunities for work in farming are still available. They both complained about the hindering of aid and the government belittling the zone’s residents’ concerns over the years.'], ['“The aid that is coming from the outside world and especially the Muslim countries are sufficient alongside the budget that they allocated for response to drought but somewhere in the chain of command, someone steals something and it trickles down until nothing is left for those in need,” Jamal said. \xa0'], ['He was struggling to contain his tears when he said: “This area, the land you stand on is known as the land of Milk and Honey. This can only happen if your government doesn’t listen to you. We asked them to build water projects to harvest the rain, dig wells and build dams.”'], ['“The aid that is coming from the outside world and especially the Muslim countries are sufficient alongside the budget that they allocated for response to drought but somewhere in the chain of command, someone steals something and it trickles down until nothing is left for those in need”  '], ['Before the drought struck him, his family, and the community around, Jamal was one of the wealthiest men in Rayitu, with over 120 in cattle head. Now, he said that the continued suffering with water shortage forced him to sell all his cattle. He is planning to leave all that he had, and resettle in Bale-Robe with his wife and children.'], ['Jamal and hundreds more are in for a protracted hardship through 2022. FEWS NET warned that with multi-year drought again likely in 2021/2022, food and income losses – with the potential for crop failure and excess livestock mortality – will likely be substantial.'], ['No one understand the gravity of this than the family of Abdulnasir Abdullahi, 37, who is originally from the town of Lakko. Addis Standard visited his farm, which is now a dry land due to his inability to find water to cultivate anything. But Abdulnasir refuses to leave. “This is where I was born, got married and lived for all of my life. I will never leave.”'], ['His suffering, like all others’, is exacerbated by the lack of proper response from the regional government and the disregard for elders’ advice to build water projects to harvest the rain. “I have 10 children and a wife and as you can see my farmland is depleted and I don’t think I will be able to farm on it for the coming season. Water is not reaching us here in Lakko and is only reaching Sawwena town which is 27 km from here.”'], ['The U.N. warned that the drought is worsening food insecurity and malnutrition, even as pastoralists are forced to walk and travel longer distances in search of water and pasture. “The surviving animals in the drought-affected areas are very weak and emaciated producing little or no milk, thus jeopardizing the availability of the main source of nutrition for children”'], ['But Abdulnasir would rather depend on his community to survive, even when they have no source of income, than having hopes for an adequate response from the government. “We have a very strong community down here, people help each other, those who have more than others, share.”'], ['Sheik Abdulhakim Waliyi, who is a community leader and a wealthy businessman is trying to provide help to the community in Sawwena woreda in collaboration with different NGOs. When explaining the severity of the drought and its impact on his community, Sheik Abdulhakim said: “The [exact] number of people displaced is not known as are the number of people deeply affected by this drought.” According to him, “prices of basic goods are going up by the day, the inflation is uncontrolled. All this is happening while the price for cattle is going down as they are weak and affected by the lack of water and pasture.”'], ['“The [exact] number of people displaced is not known as are the number of people deeply affected by this drought.”'], ['Like everyone who spoke with Addis Standard, Sheik Abdulhakim also complained about the lack of government response. “They don’t bring enough water and they only bring water by the week. There are areas where water doesn’t even reach because there are no roads,” he lamented, “if you look at the regional government assistance at face value, it should be sufficient, but it is not; besides they situate assistance in major towns of the zone where most people can not afford to come to.”'], ['Sheik Abdulhakim says that “divine intervention” is what most people hope for and could be a solution but added, “The government should stop the hindering of aid sent to the affected areas,” he added, “It does not reach the people in need because of these corrupt officials.”'], ['In Sawwena, plenty of community leaders provide assistance to the less fortunate \xa0but unlike Sheik Abdulhakim who is doing the assistance with the help of local NGOs, Mohammed Guto is hosting 40 people displaced from all over Sawwena woreda and providing for them from his own pocket. Mohammed’s testimony adds up to all others about the hindering aid by and lack of proper assistance from the regional government.'], ['“The government should stop the hindering of aid sent to the affected areas, It does not reach the people in need because of these corrupt officials.”'], ['Mohammed believes “this is an attempt to break the spirit of the people in East Bale.” He asks back with disdain “explain to me how officials from our region donated money and cattle to Amhara and Somali regions when people are dying of hunger in East Bale, in Borana and in Hararghe zones in Oromia? How can they play politics with our lives that way?”'], ['But despite all these testimonies, Aliyi Kedir, who is appointed by the Sawwena woreda administration as the head of the committee to address the drought response, disagrees with both Sheik Abdulhakim, Mohammed Guto, and multiple others who complained of corruption and accused the regional government of disrupting aid delivery.'], ['He argued that the worsening of the situation is due to the shortage of resources by the regional government as well as the woreda administration; it is the reason behind many not receiving sufficient aid. “At least 102 households come to us asking for assistance each day, we can’t provide them with the help needed, due to the insufficiency of aid.”'], ['Contradicting witnesses’ testimonies he said, “We are providing them with water on a daily basis, food aid is coming on a weekly basis and cattle feed is being distributed on a weekly basis as well.”'], ['But Aliyi admitted that “from December last year until now 30,000 cattle have died in Sawwena district alone. Imagine how many cattle died in East Bale all together?” he ponders. When asked if there were human casualties, he answered, “not that I am aware of.”'], ['When asked about the regional government’s plans to prevent future happenings, He said, “The community has been asking for water projects and this is what we are working on. We are going to build water projects with the aim of harvesting rain.”'], ['“This is an attempt to break the spirit of the people in East Bale. Explain to me how officials from our region donated money and cattle to Amhara and Somali regions when people are dying of hunger in East Bale, in Borana and in Hararghe zones in Oromia? How can they play politics with our lives that way?”'], ['The situation in Sawwena and the rest of the East Bale zone is exacerbated by the absence of access roads, health care centers, and other basic services. Residents of the zone have long complained of being left alone despite the regional government’s repeated promises to address their complaints, but with nothing to show but failure under successive governments.'], ['Officials at both the administration of the East Bale zone and the zone’s disaster risk management bureau declined to speak to Addis Standard, and gave no explanation for their refusals. AS']]}, {'Date': 'May 31, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Afar People’s Party calls attention to region’s humanitarian crisis, criticizes parties to civil war', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba: The Executive Committee of Afar People’s Party (APP) issued a statement today in Semera City, the capital of Afar regional state, calling on the federal government to respond to the humanitarian crisis in the region and to protect civilians from killings by discharging its constitutional responsibilities.'], ['The party also slammed both the government and Tigrayan authorities for what it said was “competition for power” and blamed both for creating instability and chaos in Afar regional state that resulted in deaths, casualties, trauma, displacements and destruction of properties.'], ['APP accused the federal government of failing to protect the people of Afar from what it said was ongoing atrocities and held it accountable for all the problems; the party also vowed that the people of Afar would defend their sovereignty from state and non-state “invading forces’ at its own disposal. It cautioned the government to exercise its constitutional obligations in guaranteeing protection for the people.'], [' Misappropriation of relief funds had further exacerbated efforts to mitigate crisis, according to APP, and there is pervasive insecurity and shortage of water, food and medication. '], ['The statement further stated the alarming events in the region, including the high cost of living, excessive corruption, mismanagement, unfair wealth accumulation, money laundering and a host of other unlawful activities and blamed the regional state development of backtracking on development.'], ['A wide array of human rights violations were occurring in the region, the party said, further emphasizing that women have been raped, civilians left for dead while children are separated from their families. It also highlighted the severe damage on essential civilians infrastructure.'], ['Misappropriation of relief funds had further exacerbated efforts to mitigate crisis, according to APP, and there is pervasive insecurity and shortage of water, food and medication.'], ['The party said its leadership visited the Guyeh and Afdera camps and witnessed the worrying state of displaced civilian pastoralists.'], ['For the second time, APP also expressed its reservations over the National Dialogue Commission of not meeting minimum requirements and not being inclusive of all actors, including armed groups operating across the country. It underscored that if the current format of the processes continue, it would be a waste of time and energy. Subsequently, the party urged that there should be a concerted effort to fix the shortcomings and act genuinely to solve the multiple crisis the country is currently facing. It expressed again that it would be challenging to participate in the national dialogue unless such preconditions were fulfilled. AS']]}, {'Date': 'May 31, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Armyworms devour more than 3,000 ha crop in Ethiopia’s Southwest State', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – Influx of Armyworm migrants devoured more than 3,000 hectares of crops in Ethiopia’s Southwest Regional State, Masresha Belachew, the region’s deputy president and head of the bureau of agriculture told state media.'], ['The influx of Armyworm has so far caused severe damages on 3,363 hectares of land in four zones of the state: Bench Sheko, West Omo, Konta and Dawro Zones; of these zones, the damage in Bench Sheko zone is severe, Masresha said.'], [' The news did not specify if the variety is the fall armyworm (FAW), known by its scientific name “Spodoptera frugiperda.” However, a separate statement from the Southwest Regional State Communication Bureau said the pests were “African Armyworm” '], ['Using available chemical supply, the region has started spraying the areas affected by the armyworm to prevent further damages; furthermore experts were visiting the areas and were exerting efforts to control the spread of the disease. Previously, experts from the federal ministry of agriculture had come to visit the areas following information exchanges between the regional state and the Ministry.'], ['The news did not specify if the variety is the fall armyworm (FAW), known by its scientific name “Spodoptera frugiperda.” However, a separate statement from the Southwest Regional State Communication Bureau said the pests were “African Armyworm,” and said it has damaged crops planted on more than 500 hectare land. '], ['FAW was “first reported on the African continent in early 2016.”  The UN’s Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) Ethiopia office said in 2017 that, after it first appeared in the last week of February 2017, the disease had infested “approximately a quarter of the 2.6 million hectares of land planted with maize.”'], ['“The fall armyworm, which first arrived in Africa in 2016, was intercepted on a few hectares of irrigated maize fields in southern Ethiopia in the last week of February 2017. It has now covered about 52 962 hectares in 144 districts in three of the major maize-growing regional states – Gambella, Oromia and Southern Nations Nationalities and Peoples’ Region (SNNPR),” FAO said at the time. '], ['Latest information suggests #Armyworm is expanding at alarming rate in #Ethiopia, Please see our interactive map for more pic.twitter.com/ByzkEoChtO'], ['The Government had set up a National Technical Advisory Committee on FAW (FAW TAC) in early 2018 which includes government stakeholders such as the Ministry of Agriculture and the National Agricultural Research Council (NARC); agriculture universities, and donors such as FAO and the USAID, according to the UN.'], ['Masresha Belachew told state media that the pests were “inherently different” from previous immigrants and were spreading fast; it “could not be picked up by hand.” However, prevention and control activities were being carried out all the way to the lower zonal structures to prevent the spread and damage beyond the specified zones. He called on the community to work hard to control and prevent the influx of new pests to new areas and in order to protect the next crop season. '], ['The Ministry of Agriculture has not released a statement as of the writing of this news. AS']]}, {'Date': 'May 30, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Addis Abeba city administration inaugurates dialysis center in public hospital', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – A Dialysis Center in Menelik II Referral Hospital was inaugurated today. The center was built in collaboration with the Addis Abeba City Administration and the US-based AB Medical Center. The inauguration ceremony was attended by Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed (Ph.D.), and the Mayor of Addis Abeba, Adanech Abebe.'], ['It is stated that the establishment of the dialysis center is a part of the city administration’s plans to build more state-of-the-art health facilities to make Addis Abeba a medical tourism hub in the region and enhance access to affordable health care services for the residents.'], ['According to the mayor’s office, the center is expected to increase dialysis service in public hospitals by five folds, treating 90 patients per day.\xa0\xa0'], ['Speaking at the ceremony, PM Abiy said, “Expanding healthcare services was one of the missions of the restructuring of the city administration,” and expressed optimism about such undertakings.\xa0'], ['The mayor on her part recalled that the city administration had been providing dialysis services free of charge for those who can’t afford them for the last two years. She also added that the city administration has granted 24 million ETB in subsidies.\xa0\xa0'], ['She further stated that the administration is building three hospitals in the capital and that it has given 24 sites to the private sector. AS']]}]
[{'Date': 'May 27, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Hamlin Fistula Center in Tigray says Fistula cases soared as result of war', 'news_paragraphs': [['Mekelle, Tigray –\xa0“When Birchiko came to the center, she only weighed 32kg. She was severely malnourished and her hips and knees were flexed and fixed,” explains Dr. Melaku Abreha, Medical Director at the Hamlin Fistula Center in Mekelle. “She had developed joint contractures from prolonged immobility.”'], ['Birchiko was nine months pregnant when conflict erupted in Ethiopia’s northern region of Tigray in November 2020. As people were fleeing their homes and armed forces were setting up road blockades, she went into labor. Unable to reach a health facility, she hid in the bush for seven days. When she finally delivered, her baby was stillborn. She says she was devastated.'], ['In the days that followed, Birchiko realized something was wrong. “I was not able to control my urine and faeces,” she says wearily from her hospital bed. “I stopped eating and drinking trying to decrease the leaking, but I was not getting better.” Birchiko had never heard of fistula or that it was treatable and felt she had nowhere to turn. “I thought there was no cure for my suffering, so when I was able to return to my home, I took a room for myself and became increasingly isolated,” she says.'], ['  “Before women were poor, uneducated, or from rural areas. Now, cases are common in urban areas and among educated women.” '], ['When there was a lull in fighting, her youngest brother brought her to the Fístula Centre in Mekelle, the capital of the Tigray Region. She has now been a patient for over seven months. In that time Doctor Melaku has performed three surgeries to repair Birchiko’s fistula, but the outlook is bleak. “That baby could be her first and last,” he says grimly. “I don’t think she may be able to walk or have sexual intercourse again.”'], ['Birchiko’s story is tragic, but not uncommon.\xa0Obstetric fistula is a traumatic childbirth injury that occurs when women have prolonged and obstructed labour in the absence of access to timely and skilled emergency obstetric care.\xa0The sustained pressure of a baby’s head against the mother’s pelvis cuts off the blood supply, causing the tissue to die and fall away. The resulting hole between the bladder and/or rectum is called a fistula, and causes uncontrollable leaking of urine or faeces or both. It is undeniably a condition that affects some of the poorest and most vulnerable women worldwide.\xa0'], ['Global estimates suggest that between\xa050,000 to 100,000 pregnant women\xa0develop a fistula each year, and in\xa090 per cent of cases\xa0the newborn does not survive. Fistula also brings shame, isolation, and rejection from families and communities, something Birchiko\xa0herself experienced.'], ['In Ethiopia, all the risk factors for fistula are present.\xa0Almost 80 per cent of health facilities have been looted or damaged in Tigray during the conflict, medical supplies are in short supply and the referral system has broken down. This has significantly compromised access to maternal health care – today\xa0less than\xa030% of births are attended by a skilled medical professional.\xa0The country also reports\xa0a\xa0high rate of teenage\xa0pregnancies, and while it does not discriminate by age, young girls are particularly vulnerable to fistulas because their bodies may not be ready for childbirth.'], ['Dr. Melaku says that progress made to eliminate fistula in the years since the Hamlin Fistula Center opened in 2006 has been all but eroded.\xa0\xa0The conflict, he says, has changed the sociodemographic characteristics of women experiencing the condition. “Before women were poor, uneducated, or from rural areas. Now, cases are common in urban areas and among educated women. Sexual violence and severe malnourishment among pregnant women also aggravate the severity of the cases.”\xa0'], ['While women’s lives are torn apart by obstetric fistula, the condition is largely preventable with access to quality and skilled maternal and newborn health care.\xa0\xa0Across Ethiopia, UNFPA is working with partners to support efforts to end fistula by 2030 by building the capacity of midwives to deliver emergency obstetric care and deploying them to facilities where there are staff shortages.\xa0More than 13.5 metric tons of reproductive health supplies and equipment, including life-saving maternal health medicines, have been delivered to hospitals, health facilities and mobile health teams across the region to support safe births.\xa0'], ['UNFPA is also coordinating training for clinics that provide free fistula repair surgery and working with survivors of fistula as advocates in their communities. In Tigray, Birchiko is one of 24 severe fistula cases that UNFPA is supporting with essential treatment and repair surgeries, with funding from the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs.\xa0'], ['For Birchiko, fistula has been an agonizing experience both mentally and physically, yet she is grateful for the second chance at life and has hope for a future where she won’t be ostracized: “When I am fully recovered, I want to reopen my restaurant again. I enjoyed running my own business and working in my hometown.”\xa0 UNFPA']]}, {'Date': 'May 25, 2022', 'Header': 'Profile: icipe DG, CEO recipient of 2022 prestigious Ellis Island Medal of Honor', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba -International Center of Insect Physiology and Ecology (icipe) Director General & Chief Executive Officer, Dr Segenet Kelemu, is the 2022 International Recipient of the prestigious Ellis Island Medal of Honor.'], ['The medals, which were established in 1986 by the Ellis Island Honors Society\xa0(EIHS), are among the United States most renowned awards. They are officially recognized by the US Senate and House of Representatives, and all the recipients are listed in the Congressional Records; the official record of the proceedings and debates of the US Congress.'], ['The medals are aptly named after Ellis Island, located in Upper New York Bay, which served as the US principal immigration reception center (1892–1954). Thus, the island remains an enduring symbol of the immigrant roots and diversity that characterizes the United States.'], ['The Ellis Island Medals of Honor are awarded to individuals “who have made it their mission to share with those less fortunate, their wealth of knowledge, indomitable courage, boundless compassion, unique talents and selfless generosity. They do so while acknowledging their debt to their ethnic heritage as they uphold the ideals and spirit of America.”'], [' “My journey to becoming a scientist started in rural Ethiopia, where I was inspired by the possibility of changing the lives of rural communities through science and agriculture”  '], ['Since 2003, the EIHS also awards one International Medal of Honor for special achievements and contributions to the global community, with Dr Segent being the sole recipient in 2022.'], ['“It is a great privilege to receive this recognition and to be associated with its symbolism. My journey to becoming a scientist started in rural Ethiopia, where I was inspired by the possibility of changing the lives of rural communities through science and agriculture,”  Dr Segenet remarked, adding “the opportunity to study in the United States helped to transform this dream into reality, setting me up for an international career as a molecular plant pathologist and the rise to scientific leadership.”'], ['Born in Finote Selam, Ethiopia, Dr Segenet Kelemu obtained a Bachelors degree from Addis Abeba University, Ethiopia, in 1979, before proceeding to the US for an MSc at Montana State University, in 1985; and a PhD in molecular plant pathology from Kansas State University, in 1989. From 1989 to 1992, she was a postdoctoral research scientist at Cornell University. She assumed leadership of icipe in 2013, becoming the first woman and the second African to head the institution – Africa’s only research institution dedicated to research on insects and other arthropods. She took the helm of icipe after a highly prolific scientific tenure (1992–2007) at the International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) in Cali, Colombia; as the Director of the Biosciences eastern and central Africa Hub at the International Livestock Research Institute (BecA-ILRI Hub), from 2007 to 2012; and as Vice-President of Programs at the Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA), from 2012 – 2013. \xa0'], ['Dr Segenet joins a list of noteworthy past recipients of the Ellis Island Medal of Honor including: several United States Presidents, among them Ronald Reagan, Bill Clinton and Joe Biden; Secretaries of State Henry Kissinger, Madeline Albright, Condoleezza Rice and Hillary Clinton; American activist and civil rights movement icon, Rosa Parks; Nobel\xa0Prize laureates Elie Wiesel and Malala Yousufzai; artistes including singer and actor Frank Sinatra, film director Martin Scorsese, actress Rita Moreno and opera singer Renée Fleming; celebrated sports figure Muhammad Ali; Albert II, Prince of Monaco; industry leaders, including former Apple CEO John Sculley; former Google Chairman and CEO Eric Schmidt; Mastercard Executive Chairman, Ajay Banga; former IBM CEO Ginni Rometty; former PepsiCo CEO Indra Nooyi; and Prof. Bill Hansson, Director and Scientific Member, Max Planck Institute for Chemical Ecology and former Chair of the Governing Council of icipe. Dispatch \xa0']]}, {'Date': 'May 24, 2022', 'Header': 'News Analysis: Ten journalists, media personalities arrested in Bahir Dar, Addis Abeba in just Three days', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Mahlet Fasil @MahletFasil'], ['Addis Abeba – About a dozen journalists and media personalities were arrested in a span of three days, reports said. The arrests were made in Bahir Dar, the capital of the Amhara region, and Addis Abeba according to information acquired from the media houses and families of the detainees.'], ['The crackdown was first reported on May 19 when the digital media, Ashara media, and the foreign-based broadcast TV channel Nisir International Broadcasting Corporation announced the arrest of their staff members.\xa0'], ['Ashara media announced the arrest of 5 members of its staff on May 19, 2022. The media house listed the names of its staffers, Kelemu Gelagay Akene, Daniel Mesfin, its cameramen and editors as well as its journalists Gashaye Nigussie Ferede, Getenet Yalew and Habtamu Melese. Addis Standard learned that they had not appeared in court until the publication of this news.\xa0'], ['Similarly, Nisir Media has also notified its social media followers that on the 19th of May, at approximately 4:45 PM local, security forces along with Amhara regional police ‘illegally’ encircled its studio and arrested 3 of its journalists and confiscated electronic materials.\xa0'], ['The next day, Solomon Shumiye, a host of the Youtube channel Gebeyanu was also arrested on May 20, 2022. His arrest occurred after he went to the police station in search of his sister who was also arrested there. She has since been freed, but Solomon remains in custody.\xa0'], ['Tigist Shumiye, Solomon’s sister, told Reuters that Solomon has appeared in court following his arrest along with three other suspects and that the court granted 14 days to the police to remand and investigate him.\xa0'], ['Speaking to Addis Standard, Tigist stated that Solomon has been detained at the Third Division Police Station, commonly called Sostegna, in Addis Abeba and said his next court appearance will be on May 30.'], ['In continuation of such arrests, Meskerem Abera, a university lecturer and political commentator was arrested by security forces at Bole International Addis Ababa Airport after touching down in Addis Abeba from a Bahir Dar outbound flight on May 21. She appeared in the Arada Division of the Federal Court of First Instance in Addis Abeba yesterday.\xa0'], ['At the hearing, the investigative police told the court that it is investigating Meskerem on the suspicion of\xa0 “inciting riots and creating mistrust between the Amhara region and the Federal government” and requested 14 days to remand until it arrests her collaborators.\xa0'], ['The defendant’s attorneys, on their part, argued that the police’s request, while detaining their client, was in violation of media freedom and was inappropriate. They argued that the suspects had been working on the media publicly. Explaining that if their client had committed a crime, she would not have been able to operate in public and be arrested at Bole airport, her lawyers said. They also requested the court to grant her bail stating she was breastfeeding a 7-month-old baby and had a permanent place of residence.\xa0\xa0'], ['The Ethiopian Human Rights Commission (EHRC) voiced its concerns over what it called ‘unlawful arrests’ in a statement released on Sunday.\xa0 Commissioner Daniel Bekele (P.h.D) said, “Federal and regional security forces should refrain from arresting suspects before criminal investigations and imprisoning journalists because of their work and arresting people irrespective of a court warrant and notify family members when individuals are arrested as well bring them before a court.” AS\xa0']]}, {'Date': 'May 20, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Harari Mass Media journalist, editor Muhayadin Abdullahi released on bail', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Etenesh Abera @EteneshAb '], ['Addis Abeba – Muhayadin Abdullahi, Afan Oromo journalist, and Editor at Harari region’s broadcaster, Harari Mass Media agency, was released yesterday after nine days in police custody. Muhayadin told Addis Standard that he was receiving threats for his ‘truthful reporting’'], ['\xa0According to him, his arrest was associated with these threats he was receiving and after that, they had a reason to arrest him because his social media post asked the Majlis to be way stronger in regards to the Gondar incident.“The police investigators and prosecutors took me to the office before they released me on a 2000 birr bail. They told me to quit writing on my personal Facebook page,” he said. According to Muhayadin,\xa0 the threats went as far as telling him, “ If you post anything after this, you and your family will face the consequences and we will make sure you go back to prison.”\xa0\xa0'], ['The journalist also revealed the warrant for his arrest after he was arrested and in prison. It can be recalled that the court had guaranteed 14 days for the investigation.'], ['#Ethiopia: Harari Police detain Afaan Oromo Journalist, Editor at regional broadcaster https://t.co/HUwTV2eq8O “Police officers came in patrol cars and surrounded our home while we were sitting with our newborn," his wife told @EteneshAb'], ['Muhayadin recalled that this was not the first time he was harassed. He said “ Last year for unknown reasons, members of the Oromia Special Force beat me in my office compound while my coworkers and colleagues watched.” He expressed disappointment in his media house for not pursing legal measures against the security forces. AS']]}, {'Date': 'May 19, 2022', 'Header': 'News: New report reveals drought likely killing one person every 48 seconds in Ethiopia, Kenya and Somalia; warns against delayed response', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – A new report by Oxfam International and Save the Children warned one person was “likely dying of hunger every 48 seconds in drought-ravaged Ethiopia, Kenya and Somalia due mainly to the ongoing sever drought and “the world’s repeated failure to stave off preventable disasters.” '], ['The report lamented that more than a decade since the delayed response to the 2011 famine that killed more than 260,000 people in Somalia – half of them children under five – “the world is once again failing to avert catastrophic hunger in East Africa.” '], [' “The number of people experiencing extreme hunger in the three countries has more than doubled since last year – from over 10 million to more than 23 million today” '], ['“Today, nearly half a million people across parts of Somalia and Ethiopia are facing famine-like conditions. In Kenya, 3.5 million people are suffering from extreme hunger. Urgent appeals are woefully funded, as other crises, including the war in Ukraine, are worsening the region’s escalating hunger crisis.” \xa0'], ['The number of people experiencing extreme hunger in the three countries has more than doubled since last year – from over 10 million to more than 23 million today. This is against a backdrop of crippling debt that more than tripled in under a decade – from $20.7 billion in 2012 to $65.3 billion by 2020 – sucking these countries’ resources from public services and social protection.\xa0\xa0'], ['The report, Dangerous Delay2: The Cost of Inaction, supported by the Jameel Observatory, examines the changes in the humanitarian aid system since 2011. It finds that despite an improved response to the 2017 East Africa drought when widespread famine was averted, the national and global responses have largely remained too slow and too limited to prevent a repeat today.\xa0'], ['“Despite worsening warning signs over time, world leaders have responded woefully – too late and still too little – leaving millions of people facing catastrophic hunger. Starvation is a political failure”, said Gabriela Bucher, Oxfam International’s Executive Director.\xa0'], ['Entrenched bureaucracies and self-serving political choices continue to curtail a unified global response, despite improved warning systems and efforts by local NGOs, the report finds.\xa0\xa0'], ['Oxfam and Save the Children said that the G7 and other rich nations have turned inwards in response to various global crises, such as COVID-19 and more recently the Ukraine conflict, “including by backtracking on their promised aid to poor countries and driving them to edge of bankruptcy with debt.”\xa0\xa0'], ['East African governments, too, bear their own responsibility, the report said, “having delayed their responses and often refused to acknowledge the scale of the crisis on their doorsteps. They have not adequately invested in agriculture or social protection systems to help people better cope with the drivers of hunger, including climatic and economic shocks.” \xa0'], ['']]}]
[{'Date': 'May 12, 2022', 'Header': '#ASDailyScoop: Google Translate adds 24 languages, includes Afaan Oromo, Tigrinya', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – Google announced that it has added 24 new languages to its translation platform, Google Translate, including Afaan Oromo and Tigrinya. These 24 languages are spoken by over 300 million people, incorporating languages spoken by less than a million people to those spoken by 45 million people.\xa0'], ['Google stated that it added this new collection of languages to offer support to “languages with very large but underserved populations”, noting that most of these languages were located in Africa and the Indian subcontinent. “This ranges from smaller languages, like Mizo spoken by people in the northeast of India — by about 800,000 people — up to very large world languages like Lingala spoken by around 45 million people across Central Africa,” said Isaac Caswell, a Google Translate Research Scientist.This new set of additions brings the total languages incorporated in the translation service up to 133. Google noted these newly added languages will be live starting today but will take a couple of days to reach users worldwide. AS'], ['Additions include the following:']]}, {'Date': 'May 10, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Ethiopia, Puntland animal health experts discuss laboratory quality assurance, capacity building', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – Animal Health Professionals from Ethiopia and the Puntland State of Somalia held expertise training aimed at strengthening the collaboration between Ethiopia and Puntland on laboratory quality assurance and capacity building programs, according to information from Ethiopia’s Ministry of Agriculture.  '], ['The training was conducted in Addis Abeba from 29 April- 08 May, and was organized by Ethiopian Animal Health Institute and Ministry of Livestock and Animal Husbandry under Water for Agro-pastoral productivity and Resilience (Biyole Project) in Puntland. It “mainly focused on the requirements of ISO 17025 standards such as general requirement, structural requirement, resource requirement, process requirement and management system requirement,” the Ministry said. '], ['Similarly, practical training on Serological, Molecular and bacteriological tests were delivered, linking with quality management system of international standards. '], [' “we need to wok together closely and harmonize our policy, strategy, method, standard and how to implement laboratory tests.” '], ['Speaking at the closing ceremony of the training, Dr. Yohanis Girma, representative of State Minster of Livestock and Fishery Resource Development Sector of Ministry of Agriculture, stated that neighbor countries collaboration was “very critical to prevent and control transboundary animal disease as well as to develop and grow together.” He also highlighted that since International livestock trade or market requirement is very critical, “we need to wok together closely and harmonize our policy, strategy, method, standard and how to implement laboratory tests.” He also urged the trainees to implement the experience they have shared from Ethiopian Animal Health Institute when they return to their country.'], ['According to Dr. Tasfaye Rufael, General Director of Animal Health Institute, the Institute has been working on different capacity building programs such as serology, molecular and sequencing not only in Ethiopia but also as a reference laboratory for eastern African countries and laboratories in other parts of Africa.'], ['Mohamed Abdulahi, Minister of Livestock and Animal Husbandry of Puntland State of Somalia, on his part indicated that Puntland state of Somalia will work with the Ethiopia’s Ministry of Agriculture especially with the Livestock Sector and Ethiopian Animal Health Institute to strengthen the collaboration on areas such as transboundary animal diseases and livestock trade promotion. Mentioning this training is not the first and the last in Ethiopia, the Minister added that collaboration working, knowledge and experience sharing will continue between Ethiopia and Puntland state of Somalia. AS']]}, {'Date': 'May 9, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Somali region says allocation of emergency budget to border security hampered response to drought', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Firaol Bersisa @FiraolBer'], ['Addis Abeba – Muhedin Abdi Farah, deputy head of the Somali regional finance bureau, told a local news agency that the region’s response to the drought was weakened because it was forced to allocate the entirety of the emergency budget to the protection of national borders previously guarded by federal forces who were sent off to war in the north.\xa0'], ['“The Eastern Command of the Ethiopian National Defense Forces was dispatched to the war, subsequently, regional forces including police and militia took the mission of protecting the 2500 kilometers long national borders,” Muhedin said.\xa0'], ['Muhedin also said that 2.5 billion ETB of anticipated revenue has not been gathered because of the drought. Furthermore, pressures caused by the drought have caused the regional state to borrow 500 million ETB, an amount to be deducted from the. budget allocation for the next fiscal year, according to the deputy head of the region’s finance bureau.\xa0'], ['He further alluded that 1.2 million cattle had died in the region as a result of the drought and potential revenue from cattle sales has negatively impacted the collection of the aforementioned amount of revenue.\xa0'], ['According to Muhedin, a budget of 1.8 billion allocated to building new infrastructure projects on water, education, health, and related affairs was also diverted to mitigate the problems caused by the drought.\xa0\xa0\xa0'], ['The Somali region has been battling one of the worst droughts to date, the drought has resulted in the deaths of over a million cattle and impacted people in the thousands. International partners, including the United States, are delivering humanitarian assistance to the region, even though it was previously reported that 275 million USD was remaining to meet the prevailing needs. AS']]}, {'Date': 'May 6, 2022', 'Header': '#ASDailyScoop: Silte Zone Police intercept nine suspected human traffickers smuggling 19 children to Addis Abeba', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], ['Addis Abeba – The Silte Zone Police in Southern Nations, Nationalities and People’s (SNNP) Regional State, announced yesterday that its forces have arrested nine suspected human traffickers who were caught while smuggling 19 children from Sodo city, the administrative capital of Wolayta zone in SNNP to the capital Addis Abeba.'], ['Shemsu Hikma, the inspector general of Silte zone police department, said the children, who are between five and 10 years old, were abducted and covered in grain sacks while being smuggled. The police received community tip-off in Worabe city after the trafficking victims screamed for help, the police said. The nine suspected traffickers who are all women were then intercepted in Sano kebelle.'], ['Shemsu also said that the police has provided food and other supports to the children and was escorting them and the nine traffickers to Wolayta police.'], ['The suspected traffickers told police that a large number of participants were involved in similar smuggling and that another truck carrying children has already traveled to Addis Abeba in the early hours on 05 May. The inspector called local communities to stand by security forces and prevent such acts. AS']]}, {'Date': 'May 4, 2022', 'Header': 'Analysis: Farmers brace for worse as fertilizer prices rise, planting season approaches', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Getahun Tsegaye @GetahunTsegay12 & Mahlet Fasil @MahletFasil\xa0'], ['Addis Abeba – The soaring price of fertilizers has posed a great challenge for farmers in Ethiopia. Reports have shown that fertilizer prices increased by more than 150% this year compared to last year. Local farmers that Addis Standard spoke to complained of not being able to buy fertilizers on a loan like they used to.\xa0\xa0'], ['Lemma Abebe is a local farmer in Agere Mariam woreda in the North Showa zone of the \xa0 Amhara Region.\xa0 “My farmland is located at a lowland that usually needs 5 to 7 quintals of fertilizers for one harvest,” Lemma said, “unless I use fertilizer, the harvest will be very minimal and it has become mandatory to use it to earn good results. Previously, we used to take fertilizers on a loan and repay them back once we earn money after selling our products but this trend has now stopped since we’re not allowed to take credit anymore.”'], ['The 38-year-old father of four explained that he has been supporting his family on a very small plot of land that he inherited from his parents when he got married. “My kids are not old enough to plow yet but they support me by looking after the cattle,” he said, adding,” The challenges I am facing as a farmer may not be easily understandable for regular people. Only farmers understand a farmer’s problem.” \xa0\xa0\xa0'], ['But Lemma’s frustration is not just about affordable access to fertilizer, he is dismayed about the misconception some urban dwellers have. “Residents in cities sometimes have wrong assumptions that farmers may have a comfortable life. Though we farm, we are hungry and are destitute to the extent that we cannot afford to buy some goods. What makes our situation worse is the current alarming price of fertilizers,” Lemma complained.\xa0'], ['Woinshet Alemu is another farmer from Agere Mariam. She told Addis Standard that following her husband’s death, she and her children’s life has been greatly dependent on renting farmland. This trend, however, seems to have been unreliable means of living for them. “I have two kids, four and two years old. Since the death of my husband last year, I have been supporting my children by renting the plot of land to my neighbor,”  Woinshet said, “The tenant [her neighbor] and I agreed that I will take 60% of the harvest while he takes the remaining 40%;  we also agreed that we will equally share\xa0the cost of\xa0seeds and\xa0fertilizers.”\xa0'], ['“The challenges I am facing as a farmer may not be easily understandable for regular people. Only farmers understand a farmer’s problem.”'], ['According to Woinshet expenses are not as affordable today as they used to be in recent past. The soaring cost of fertilizers has made life unbearable. “What will my kids and I eat if we buy the fertilizer with all the money we earn from the small farmland?” she asks in amusement.'], ['BBC Amharic has recently reported that a quintal of fertilizer had a price tag of 1,700 ETB last year which now cost more than double, 4,500 ETB per quintal. Farmers fear their land could go without being ploughed this farming season due to the soaring price of fertilizers. Rising inflation is what the farmers said would have a major impact on their products. ”My plan was to spend up to 25,000 ETB on fertilizer this year; but now it has more than doubled and costs over 50,000 ETB. So how do I sow?” farmer Gete asks,  “I have not bought any fertilizer yet. I am also worried about how to repay the debt I borrowed to sow for the summer irrigation.”'], ['Another farmer, Shumet, shares Gete’s worries. ”Our village has been discussing the fertilizers issue for days now,” Shemet said. The farmers said they needed at least eight quintals of NPS and four quintals of Urea fertilizers to cover their land with crops. They asserted that because they could not afford to buy the fertilizers, they would not be able to produce anymore unless a better solution was given.\xa0\xa0\xa0'], ['“I am a poor farmer. I can’t afford to buy it at the current price.I may plant a little corn so that my children would not miss the harvest. It has become unattainable to harvest other than this,” the farmers expressed their despair.\xa0The soaring prices is now forcing the two farmers to consider planting crops that do not require fertilizer and are less profitable as the last resort. '], ['The report said Ethiopia purchased 12.8 million quintals of fertilizers in the last week March this year, according to the Ministry of Agriculture. Sophia Kassa (PhD), State Minister for Investment and Input sector at he ministry, said work was underway to distribute the fertilizers to different regions. '], ['Sophia reiterates the price of fertilizer increased by more than 150% this year compared to last year, and says that the price could have soared a lot more had the government not finalized the purchase deals earlier.\xa0“As a country, we have already won the bid and secured the deal. That’s why we still get a better price,” she claimed.\xa0'], ['She said that major fertilizer-producing countries had already reduced fertilizers production due to the global COVID-19 pandemic.  The price of natural gas, which, according to her, is specifically used for the production of urea fertilizer, has also risen, forcing countries that produce the fertilizer out of production.\xa0She also stated that China and Russia had reduced their fertilizer exports, contributing to the current price increase.\xa0 Procurement delays also occurred due to repeated issuance of bids, the state minister added.\xa0'], ['According to the global agriculture data brief, “in 2018, urea import for Ethiopia was 491,137 tonnes. Though Ethiopia urea import fluctuated substantially in recent years, it tended to increase through 2004 – 2018 period ending at 491,137 tonnes in 2018.” '], ['Taking into account the ongoing import of fertilizers,\xa0efforts are underway to identify areas that should see crop planting earlier, and that regions were working to deliver it properly, Sophia said, adding\xa0that regional states were also working hard to enable the farmers not only to use artificial fertilizers but also natural fertilizers.\xa0'], ['In a report Sophia submitted to the Agricultural Affairs Standing Committee of the Ethiopia Parliament on 13 April, she said that the government has made US$1 billion worth fertilizer procurement deal for 12.8 million quintals of fertilizers. Of this, 4.95 million quintals was already distributed to farmers, 3.5 million quintals of which was distributed through regions. The remaining 4.3 million   quintals has already arrived at Djibouti Port. '], ['The State Minister told the BBC Amharic that that Ethiopia bought 17 million quintals of fertilizers last year, compared to the 5 million quintals fewer purchases. “Of the total demand, only 70 % of purchases were made. Additional purchases will be made in the fall,” she added.'], [' “as the long rains planting season approaches, prospects of higher-than-average fertilizer prices could reduce fertilizer demand” '], ['Although there is no available data on the direct impact on Ethiopia’s import, Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and its outcome on the global supply of fertilizer is already a cause of concern worldwide. In In March, Gro-Intelligence already warned that “Russia is the world’s biggest exporter of fertilizers, but its war with Ukraine has disrupted shipping and driven up prices for natural gas, a key ingredient for fertilizer manufacturing. Western sanctions, including against Russian banks, could further curtail exports by constraining financing. Futures prices for urea fertilizer have jumped 32% since the invasion began on 24 Feb. while diammonium phosphate, or DAP, futures are up 13%.” '], ['Similarly, the U.N. warned that Eastern African countries are “fully dependent on fertilizer imports and the rising fertilizer costs are expected to have severe implications of food availability and prices.” Although, particular countries of concern are Kenya and Uganda (importing 15 and 16 percent of the total value of fertilizers from Russia and Ukraine), according to the UN, “as the long rains planting season approaches, prospects of higher-than-average fertilizer prices could reduce fertilizer demand, which, coupled with anticipated below-average rains is likely to impact crop production, availability of staple crops on markets and, eventually, push cereal prices up.”  '], ['As of late, officials from the federal government and regional states are recently advising farmers to increase the use of organic fertilizer as one way to alleviate the pressure.  The farmers, however, say that they rarely use organic fertilizers due to the frequent exposure of their land by imported fertilizers. '], ['Furthermore, the effective use of organic fertilizer is dependent on multiple variables. According to a study published in February this year, for example, which was aimed at identifying “the determinants of the utilization of organic fertilizers among smallholder farmers in the South Gondar Zone, Amhara National Regional State (ANRS), Northwest Ethiopia,” revealed that of the total 420 smallholder farmers surveyed in the study, “223 (53.10%) of the smallholder farmers used organic fertilizer and 197 (46.90%) of smallholder farmers did not use organic fertilizer.” '], ['“The study showed that the age of the head of the household, the marital status, the educational status, the number of laborers, the farming experience, the farm size, the number of livestock, the access to information on organic fertilizer, access to extension service, cost of a laborer, household income, soil fertility, and farm to home distance significantly influenced the use of organic fertilizer.” '], ['Overall, less than 40% of farmers in Ethiopia use fertilizer, according to a research study, and “those who do, apply rates significantly below those recommended. This low fertilizer use is primarily due to prices being two to three times higher than prices on the world markets.” '], [' “As a country, we have already won the bid and secured the deal. That’s why we still get a better price.”   '], ['On 23 March Addis Standard reported that farmers in the East Gojjam Zone of the Amhara regional state had filed complaints with zonal authorities on 22 March regarding the lack of supply and the rising cost of fertilizers ahead of the coming main crop planting season.'], ['Representatives of the farmers who were drawn from various localities in the zone told zonal authorities that one of the main reasons for their harvest declines was the lack of timely supply of fertilizer and rising costs, contributing to their inability to buy and use the fertilizer timely.'], ['The farmers’ representatives further cautioned that failure to provide adequate fertilizer for the next farming season could lead to a reduction in production and cause further damage to the lives of the farmers. They concluded their discussion by calling on the zonal leadership to facilitate a speedy solution and also formed a committee from each Woreda in the zone. '], ['Recently, authorities are attempting to help farmer in East Gojam make use of organic fertilizer. Farmers in Machakel Woreda of East Gojjam Zone told state media on 04 April that they were working to increase their agricultural productivity by preparing and using natural/organic fertilizers widely. AS']]}]
[{'Date': 'May 2, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Gunshots, teargas disrupt Eid prayers in Addis Abeba as worshipers scramble in confusion, families separated', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Addis Standard Staff'], ['Addis Abeba – Today’s Eid al-Fitr prayers at Addis Abeba Stadium, in the capital Addis Abeba, were disrupted after gunshots and teargas were discharged in the midst of crowded places. Addis Standard journalists who were on the scene confirmed that blasts were heard when prayers commenced, prompting the attendees to run in different directions.'], ['Several women were seen visibly distraught after being separated with their children. Harun Media used its Facebook page to reconnect separated children with their families. What prompted the gunshots and the teargas was not immediately clear, and a short statement by the city police simply described it as  “unrest instigated by a few individuals.” The event was being attended by hundreds of thousands of Muslims from the city. '], ['”The police were telling the people that everything was fine, to return to their prayers, but the blasts continued to be heard,” Mohammed, a witness who was at the stadium said, adding,\xa0 “I didn’t see any injuries but many children were separated from their parents.” The eyewitness also noted that all the mosques that traditionally perform Eid prayers were closed today.\xa0'], ['Nedir, another witness who spoke to Addis Standard said, “We heard six gunshots near Hyatt\xa0 Regency. There were teargas as well,” he said. According to him, the shots were from security forces and said he wasn’t sure if there were any deaths or casualties.'], ['Another witness who told Addis Standard on the conditions of anonymity said that the violence started when some Muslims tried to pray in an area where such religious practices are prohibited,” adding, “Only teargas was fired not any bullets,” he said.'], ['Addis Standard spoke to an attendee of the prayers who corroborated the statements by other witnesses that she heard gunshots and tear gas being launched at the prayer. The worshiper who was returning from the stadium added that people were bleeding. Addis Standard saw several people including children returning from the prayers walking barefoot around Megenagna.\xa0'], ['In a short statement, Addis Abeba police said there was “property damage” after “unrest instigated by a few individuals” near the Martyr’s Statue, known by its official name “Red Terror Martyrs’ Memorial Museum, before Eid prayers were conducted. The Memorial Museum is located near Meskel Square. '], ['The statement did not say if the police discharged weapons or teargas but said worshipers were “now returning home calmly” and called on the public “to calm down and protect themselves and their environment.” Further notice will be announced to the public, the city’s Police said.'], ['Mohammed however insists that there were no riots on the scene. Addis Standard’s attempts to speak to the public relations head of Addis Abeba Police Commission, Commander Fasika Fente, were to no avail. AS']]}, {'Date': 'April 30, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Workers observe International Worker’s Day, demand national minimum wage, end to war and assurances for peace', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – International Workers’ Day is being celebrated in Ethiopia for the 47th time under the motto “Organizing for Peace, Productivity and Livelihoods.” Banners expressing workers’ demands including a national minimum wage, good governance, end to war and assurance for peace, as well as respect for the rights of domestic workers were displayed at the event marking the International Workers’ Day, which will be observed around the word on 01 May. '], ['Employees from various organizations are currently celebrating the day at the Addis Abeba Stadium. Representatives of various workers unions  demanded that the government improve the cost of living, improve the wages of workers, enable workers to work in peace, among others, state media reported.'], ['International Labor Organization (ILO) representative Alexo Musindo, raised the pressure workers are facing due to Covid 19 global pandemic and called on the government to protect workers’ rights and safety.'], ['Dr. Yohannes Benti, President of the Ethiopian Teachers’ Association, said the workers could not cope with the high cost of living and that citizens were dying due to lack of peace; he called on the government to respond immediately.'], ['President of the Ethiopian Employers’ Confederation, Tadele Yimer, on his part urged employers to treat their employees with dignity and respect. He also said works were underway to prevent employers that are working to block workers from being organized.'], ['Similarly, Kassahun Follo, President of the Confederation of Ethiopian Trade Unions (CETU), said employers should respect worker’s right to organize as it is part of human right and called on the government to create a stable industry and maintain peace.'], ['Muferiat Kamil, Minister of Labor and Skills, said that the government recognizes that there are still workers’ questions that need to be answered and was reviewing policies and guidelines to answer those questions. The works being done by the government are also aimed at increasing the competitiveness of the workers, she said. AS']]}, {'Date': 'April 30, 2022', 'Header': 'News: US calls for urgent restoration of essential services in Tigray, encouraged by ‘series’ of actions to end conflict', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – The US has once again called for “the restoration of essential services in Tigray on an urgent basis,” and urged the federal and Tigrayan authorities to seize the opportunity recent “encouraging actions” taken by both “to advance a negotiated ceasefire, including the necessary security arrangements.” '], ['For months, the federal government disconnected Tigray state from all forms of communication including telecom, banking and electricity as well as commercial flights and road communication. The UN called it a “de facto blockade,” and continued to call for the lifting. “Humanitarian organizations in Tigray are facing growing challenges in reaching people in need due to shortages of essential supplies, and the continuing suspension of basic essential services, including banking, electricity, and communications,” the UN said on 14 April.    '], ['In a new statement released last night, the State Department praised Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed for taking a “series of encouraging actions that have laid the groundwork for an end to conflict, including lifting the state of emergency, releasing some political prisoners and detainees, and, in parallel with Tigrayan authorities, declaring an effective cessation of hostilities.” It also said it was “encouraged that Tigrayan forces have withdrawn most of their forces from Afar and have reiterated their commitment to a peaceful resolution of the conflict.” '], ['However, Tigrayan authorities said all their forces have withdrawn from Afar. “We have withdrawn all our forces from Afar,” said Getache Reda, Advisor to the President of Tigray and TPLF executive committee member. The federal government denied the withdrawal, and further accused Tigrayan authorities of preparing for fresh attacks and impeding the delivery of aid. '], ['The US has also renewed its call “for immediate, sustained, and unimpeded humanitarian access to all Ethiopians affected by this conflict,” a call repeatedly echoed by the international community. But according to the latest report from the UN since 1 April, 142 trucks of food aid, and 10 fuel tankers, have arrived in Tigray in three convoys via the road from Semera in Afar.'], [' these supplies remain far below what is required to meet the level of needs '], ['“So far, about 3,400 metric tons of food have been brought into Tigray with these convoys. These deliveries have been dispatched to priority districts including Abi-Adi, Adwa and Axum (in Central Zone), Adigrat (in Eastern zone), Maichew (in Southern zone), and Sheraro and two refugee camps (in North Western zone), as well as Mekelle. Distribution is ongoing. But these supplies remain far below what is required to meet the level of needs,” the UN said. '], ['In Afar and Amhara states, 10 million people have received food assistance delivered by the Government, the UN, and NGO partners since December, according to the UN. “In Amhara, over 104,000 people were assisted by the UN and partners during the past week. In the Afar region, 83,000 people received food assistance during the past week. Close to 700,000 people have been assisted under the current round of food distribution.” AS'], [' ']]}, {'Date': 'April 28, 2022', 'Header': 'News: U.S. pledges continued drought-related humanitarian aid in Somali region', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Firaol Bersisa @FiraolBer'], ['Addis Abeba – \xa0Ambassador Jacobson, Chargé d’Affaires, of the US embassy in Addis Abeba, and Adam Schmidt, Deputy Mission Director of USAID in Ethiopia met the with the president of the Somali region, Mustafe Muhammed, and regional officials to assess and understand the devastating drought [and relief response efforts] which has affected 9 of 11 zones in the Somali region. \xa0Ambassador Jacobson vowed that the U.S.\xa0 will continue offering support to alleviate the impacts of the drought.\xa0'], ['At the press briefing, yesterday following the trip made by both dignitaries as part of a wider delegation to the Somali region, Ambassador Jacobson began by highlighting the extremely concerning the situation on the ground as what could be the ‘worst drought in a century according to early warning systems, she noted that elders she spoke with in the Edolo IDP camp attested to the devastation caused by this drought to their livestock and livelihoods. '], ['Offering insight to current U.S. humanitarian efforts, the ambassador stated that 110 million USD had been dedicated thus far in the areas of direct food assistance, essential nutritional, and medical plus agricultural-livestock support. Ambassador Jacobson stressed a commitment to all people across Ethiopia, in line with the long-standing relationship between both countries. Furthermore, expressing appreciation to the regional government for the ongoing collaboration.\xa0'], ['However, there lies a total requirement of 550 million USD to meet the needs of the people, leaving a huge funding gap of 275 million USD, the ambassador underlined. And accordingly, expressed hope that other partners [both national and international] would step up to address this urgent gap.\xa0'], ['Deputy Director Adam Schmidt, on his part, stated that it was significant to see the effects of this drought and additionally understand partnerships [to tackle it] at the local and regional levels. He said that there was a commitment to continue such partnerships, however, stressing that additional support was essential and that such a trip to the affected areas can motivate mobilization of resources as an outcome.\xa0'], ['Questions were raised from the media, especially about how the current relationship between the Ethiopian government and the United States impacts the assistance endeavors to which the ambassador replied, “Our assistance is based on need, not on politics. And that the U.S. has a positive working relationship with the government of Ethiopia.”'], ['Addis Standard also forwarded questions to the ambassador and deputy director asking what immediate steps does the US plan on taking to address discrepancies from failing to engage the needed 275 million USD from partners: “We are doing our part, we just got an additional 13 million USD, we also participated in a pledging conference in Geneva, I think we are doing our part on order to mobilize our own resources from the U.S. government but also working to encourage others to mobilize their resources as well,” the ambassador responded.\xa0'], ['Deputy Director Schmidt added “We are continuing to stress the need and that is particularly part of this visit to understand directly what the challenges are. There is an opportunity to bring more needed attention to the immediate challenges.” Furthermore, he said that ‘hopefully through donor pledging conferences and other events, there will be a real support to meet that deficiency but it is a whole effort to cross many stakeholders. ‘'], ['Addis Standard also put a question about U.S. readiness for potential outbreaks occurring in the IDP camps to which ambassador Jacobson answered, “Not only with the drought, but there is a robust team at the Ethiopian CDC center and they have worked with all levels of government in Ethiopia to build a network of early warning and surveillance for outbreaks of any kind of contagious disease and that work is ongoing in everywhere in Ethiopia.” Pointing to a visit to the IDP camps, she mentioned that U.S. relief assistance also included providing immunization screening to children to the measles vaccine and as such, no outbreak has been seen in the camp. Underscoring prevention, the ambassador remarked that, ‘immunization is the key.’ AS']]}, {'Date': 'April 27, 2022', 'Header': 'View from Mekelle: Ethiopia’s Siege – Turning women’s bodies into a cell', 'news_paragraphs': [['Mehret Okubay Berhe'], ['By Mehret Okubay Berhe @MehretOkubay'], ['Mekelle – At midnight in the early days of October 2021 – screaming and shouting would irrupt in our neighborhood in Mekelle. I assumed a fight had broken out – unusual perhaps, but not unlikely – me and my mother walked outside our home to find over half a dozen neighbors with a terrified look on their faces as a woman screamed. Right there, in the bleak of darkness and freezing temperature a woman was giving birth to her first child. '], ['I’m sure many of you are wondering why the sisters, or us – the half a dozen neighbors beside her – failed to just pick up a phone to call an ambulance or get their cars started to get her to the hospital. Well, at that point, Tigray had been under siege for three months. For much of the world – a communication blackout would simply imply an internet shutdown. But for months, Tigrayans had been living without cell service and all other forms of communication not just with the outside world, but within, too. Not only that, fuel, banking services, aid and medical supplies have been blocked from reaching Tigray.'], ['According to a mini Demographic and Health Survey conducted in 2019 by Ethiopia’s Central Statistics Agency, 94% of pregnant women in Tigray received at least one visit for antenatal care services, trained health workers assisted 81% of deliveries and 73% of mothers were getting postnatal service within seven days of delivery. The corresponding figure, as provided by Tigray’s Bureau of Health, in 2021 shows an astronomical decline to 16 percent, 21 percent and 19 percent respectively.'], ['This is primarily due to the deliberate and systematic destruction of health facilities in Tigrai. An assessment by Médecins Sans Frontiers of 106 health facilities across different parts of Tigray between December 2020 and March 2021 found that 73 percent of health facilities were either damaged or looted, and 65 percent were completely non-functional.\xa0\xa0\xa0'], [' The destruction of health facilities in Tigray also indicates to the deliberate destruction and targeting of a predominantly female driven sector; over 60 % of health workers in Tigray are women. '], ['Tigray’s health system, like most across the developing world focused on the provision of\xa0 primary health care, leading to a high dependence on small but numerous health facilities located in rural and remote areas across the state. These facilities, even less accessible to aid organizations and the media, were the primarily targets of destruction and pillaging. '], ['The destruction of health facilities in Tigray also indicates to the deliberate destruction and targeting of a predominantly female driven sector; over 60 % of health workers in Tigray are women. This is in part due to the Tigray state’s policy for improving sexual and reproductive health, that includes the Health Extension Program that employees exclusively female health workers with high school diplomas to go house-to-house in rural areas to promote reproductive health amongst pregnant women and lactating mothers.'], ['Tigray’s health system today depends on mobile clinics and an in-substation number of health facilities based in urban areas; most of whom have now been rendered useless due to the on-going siege on the region. Most pharmacies have closed, hospitals are being forced to reuse even gloves and many hospitals have discontinued laboratory services because they’ve run out of essential chemicals and equipment. Remaining laboratories\xa0cannot run test for HIV, or other sexually transmitted diseases, not to mention other essential testing such as, haemoglobin levels, or Covid 19.\xa0'], ['The impact the destruction of health facilities has had on women’s capacity to access sexual and reproductive health care is quite possibly one of the most aggressive in reversing gains for women’s reproductive rights in the 21st century. '], ['Even before internet service was discontinued in Ukraine – Space X made the decision to provide satellite access to ensure Ukrainians remained connected to the world and each other. Tigray, on the other hand, has been without all forms of telecommunication services for the past nine months and only partially and intermittently had access in the eight months that came before it. While internet has not been available for the most part of the war that is now on its eighteenth month.'], ['The discontinuation of these services has also meant that banks in Tigray are not able to access or update customer information. This is in addition to the federal government’s months long blanket suspension of all accounts opened in Tigray.'], [' The impact the destruction of health facilities has had on women’s capacity to access sexual and reproductive health care is quite possibly one of the most aggressive in reversing gains for women’s reproductive rights in the 21st century '], ['The Ethiopian government’s attempts at suppressing information coming out of Tigray were so intense in fact that government troops raided and dismantled UN communications equipment hours before they withdrew from Tigray’s capital, Mekelle on 28 June 2021. Not to mention the destruction they caused to broadcasting outlets based in Tigray – including state owned Tigray Television.'], ['The discontinuation of telecommunication and banking services has a clear implication on women’s reproductive health, it’s likely that many women are going without medical treatment due to financial reasons or simply because they’re not able to reach health professionals in time. It also means that neither aid organizations nor government are able to track, formulate and respond to needs on the ground. Lack of basic services also adds weight on women as primary caretaker’s in the home. Failure of Tigray’s health system to care for patients will lead to women having more responsibilities in the household; lack of electricity, banking, and unavailability of essential items in markets just means women will have to do more to coup with the needs of the household. '], ['An important aspect in ensuring women’s reproductive rights is, of course, the availability of contraceptives. I visited five pharmacies at different locations around the capital: just one had morning after pills, another had injectable contraceptives, nothing else was available, and what ever women could find was being sold at three to four times its usual price. The last batch of pregnancy termination pills available in Tigray were at Asertehade Lekatit Hospital in my neighborhood and expired some two months ago.'], ['Tigray has run out of vital vitamins for prenatal care, health facilities are far from having the capability to provide proper care for women in labor and foods essential for infants are either unavailable or overpriced.'], ['The on-going siege has also increased women’s vulnerability to sexual exploitation. Women IDPs are especially at risk, an ethnic cleansing campaign in western Tigray has led to a massive number of displaced persons, of which close to half are women. None of these IDPs are able to access food or other essentials, what little was available many IDP chose to sell in exchange for food in the early days of the siege. Now, women are being forced into prostitution, and child labor is simply the order of the day, while lack or separated sleeping corridors for women and children in these overcrowded IDP camps are sure to increase women’s vulnerability to sexual violence.\xa0'], ['Tigray is running out of other essentials for women, such as, menstrual pads, soaps and other basic supplies essential for sanitation, too. '], ['But despite the extraordinary evidence supporting the grave violation of human rights in Tigray and the very inhuman nature of this siege, which the UN called is a “de facto blockade”  – no country or international organization has imposed sanctions on Ethiopia. In fact, the Nobel Committee has publicly announced that it stands by its decision to award the prize to Abiy Ahmed in 2019. The chair for the committee told CNN’s Zain Asher she didn’t believe there was ‘ a right or wrong’ in the on-going conflict and described it – a conflict which has weaponized food, rape and basic services – as ‘complicated.’'], [' the chairperson’s statements were just a reflection of the international community’s general reservation towards a clear condemnation that would carry with it a responsibility to act '], ['But the chairperson’s statements were just a reflection of the international community’s general reservation towards a clear condemnation that would carry with it a responsibility to act. So instead, statements are shallow and their only clear objective is to sound even handed.'], ['The international community’s response to the crisis in Tigray is especially surprising in light of the COVID 19 pandemic that has thought us all about the far reaching consequence of a health crisis anywhere in the world. Assuming the effects of the health crisis in Tigray can be contained within the region goes against all major scientific findings of the past century. Our faiths are very much bound – an assertive response to the humanitarian catastrophe is not only human and very much long overdue but an investment in the health and well-being of the human kind.'], ['Minutes after me and my mother left our beds to find the young woman laying on our door steps- a neighbor would turn to me and say “could you bring scissors please?” A child had been born, and for a moment we’d feel something other than fear and frustration at the unfortunate faith that had brought us all together that evening, we’d feel hope. The type of hope that comes along with one of the greatest beginnings on earth; hope for a brighter future, hope for peace and most importantly, hope for good health. AS'], ['______________________________________________________________________________//_________________________________________________________________________'], ['Writer’s note: I am a journalist living under siege in Tigray. For ten months her own government in collaboration with the Eritrea has blocked all land routs into Tigray and banned commercial flights. No commercial goods have been able to reach Tigray and aid flowing is a trickle, and everyone in Tigray is blocked from accessing banking services. The comprehensive communications blackout in Tigray has also meant that Tigrayans are not able to tell the world their stories and share the horrid impacts of the siege. Which is why I am dedicated to ensuring that more stories are able to come out of Tigray.']]}]
[{'Date': 'April 26, 2022', 'Header': 'Analysis: Afar region says aid delivery by fed. government not enough as IDP crisis worsens', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Mahlet Fasil @MahletFasil'], ['Addis Abeba – More than 300,000 IDPs are sheltered in 14 makeshift camps in the Afar region, but according to the region’s head of disaster prevention and risk management Mohamed Hussein who spoke with Addis Standard, support from the federal government is not enough.'], ['He said between 200 and 300 IDPs enter the camps per day, adding that the number of IDPs has increased significantly as the fighting continues. “There are a lot of children and women in shelters right now.\xa0'], ['Although the regional government is providing assistance to the best of its capacity, the support provided by the federal government is not enough. Residents of 5 woredas are completely displaced.’’ he said. Adding on detail, he informed Addis Standard the figure only includes IDPs that are registered. He said it was impossible to return the displaced to their homes in the midst of the fighting; adding that the aid provided by the United Nations and humanitarian agencies is insufficient.\xa0'], ['The United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs said that the humanitarian situation in the region continues to be dire with a high number of IDPs in need of support while the response is still insufficient to meet the amounting needs in the region.'], ['Sultan Yassin, a resident of Berhale Woreda in the Afar Region, walked 100 kilometers (62 miles) with his family and is now living in a shelter. “It is very unfortunate. We were forced into this war. The government is not providing us with food and material aid. Everyone who used to say that they were with us is no longer with us.’’ he said.\xa0 “We are Ethiopians. When all this abuse took place, government officials and aid workers disappeared for unknown reasons,” he adds.\xa0'], [' “Everyone who used to say that they were with us is no longer with us .”'], ['Fatuma, another displaced woman sheltered in Buti Woreda, began her speech by saying, “Allah will judge us, in a country where there is a government, we are evicted from our homes and we live in shelters. We pay for the medical treatment of our children. I want to go home and start my life again. I am a woman and I want to live in peace with my mother and my children. When I see children of officials in power, eating, and my children are starving, I cry and tell Allah.’’'], ['When asked how many IDPs there were, Fatuma said, the government only knew of those registered in the camps, many are scattered in the desert. “My neighbors are not here now. They refused to flee and abandon their camels and goats. I don’t even know where they are.”'], ['On the contrary, Debebe Zewde, Public Relations Officer of the National Disaster Management Commission said that several aid organizations including World Food Program (WFP) are providing aid in the Afar region, in addition to the government and individuals. He insisted that humanitarian assistance is being provided and said, “We need t take into account the current situation in Ethiopia. Regional governments should use the assistance provided wisely.”'], ['According to the region’s head of disaster prevention and risk management, infrastructure worth more than ten billion ETB had been destroyed in the war. Mohammed called upon the international organizations to put pressure on Tigrayan forces to leave the areas they occupied in the region.\xa0'], ['IDPs in the Afar region have repeatedly stated that the assistance is insufficient. \xa0Afar People’s Party Executive Committee said that Aid is not reaching hundreds of thousands of people while supplies, especially food items remain stocked in warehouses.\xa0'], ['The party accused the government of monopolization of aid delivery for political consumption. “We are receiving many complaints that the supports that are being made are not reaching the real victims beyond political image building,” the party said. AS']]}, {'Date': 'April 26, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Oromia region reports 1.3 million cattle deaths worth 26 billion ETB in eight drought-stricken zones', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Getahun Tsegaye @GetahunTsegay12'], ['Addis Abeba – The Oromia region disaster and risk management commission reported\xa0 1.3 million deaths in livestock worth 26 billion ETB in the Oromia region, a local media reported. The commission also added that nearly 14 million animals have been affected by the drought in eight zones of the region, out of which 2 million are unable to move without support.\xa0'], ['Begna Duresa, the director of precaution and disaster risk reduction at the commission, told the local news outlet that the continued absence of spring and autumn in the region has led to severe drought in a total of eight zones. Begna further stated that\xa0the study the commission conducted revealed that a total of 14 million livestock were identified as severely affected.\xa0'], ['The director explained that providing fodder continues to be the biggest challenge as the drought continues to ravage areas in the eastern Bale and Guji zones. He stated that the government has only been able to respond to 10 percent of the total number of livestock affected by drought.\xa0'], ['He expressed his hope that if this spring season experiences rain the damage is expected to reduce. The director, however, underlined his worry that the weather forecast indicates that the weather in eastern and southeastern Oromia would be dry. AS']]}, {'Date': 'April 26, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Study reveals war undermined Tigray’s successful natural famine prevention strategy', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – A new study has found that, by driving deforestation, the war in Tigray is undermining a highly successful regional environmental restoration program that was intended to improve food security in a region affected by frequent famines. The program used tree planting, and soil and water management to boost the agriculture that 75% of Tigrayans rely on. If it continues, the deforestation trend could impact food security and reduce the ability of rural communities to recover from the war.'], ['The Conflict and Environment Observatory (CEOBS) used satellite data to examine changes in vegetation during the first 12 months of the conflict, identifying declines in trees and shrubs affecting at least 280 km2 of Tigray. To make certain that the changes were as a result of the war, CEOBS excluded the influence of rainfall, temperatures, vegetation fires and locusts. Local sources support the idea that the vegetation declines are being driven by the collapse in the fuel supply in Tigray as a result of the blockade, with military forces and/or local communities turning to timber to use as a cooking fuel or in charcoal production.'], ['“Vegetation loss matters for farmers in Tigray,” said CEOBS’ Researcher Henrike Schulte to Bühne, who led the study. “The recovery of vegetation, especially woody vegetation, was the keystone of a regional strategy to improve water and soil retention, and therefore agricultural productivity.” Trees and shrubs slow rainfall and help it to enter into the soil, this also reduces run-off that can strip away fertile topsoil.\xa0\xa0'], ['The decades-old program in Tigray is a famously successful nature-based solution. Research had shown that in locations studied it had increased crop productivity by between 12-50%, and that water and soil interventions had reduced erosion rates by 68%, when comparing 1975 with 2006. Restoration was run by communities, with individuals volunteering each year to build dams, ponds and bunds to manage soil and water. Communities also agreed to exclude their livestock from almost 25% of Tigray to allow the vegetation to recover, these so-called exclosures had also played an important role to the re-greening of the region.\xa0'], [' “The continued loss of woody vegetation due to the conflict, together with other forms of environmental degradation, threatens to erode two decades of successful landscape restoration across Tigray” '], ['The study used data gathered before the war to help map where trees and shrubs were in 2020. Satellite data was then used to examine changes in how healthy the vegetation was, and how much was lost in the first 12 months of the war. Declines were visible across Tigray, with hotspots along a northeast-southeast axis, south of Shire, around the Kafta-Sheraro National Park, and in the southwest. While vegetation had increased in some areas of Tigray, the increases were at a lower rate than in previous years with similar growing conditions.'], ['The continued loss of woody vegetation due to the conflict, together with other forms of environmental degradation, threatens to erode two decades of successful landscape restoration across Tigray, and with it, food security. However, it is likely that landscape restoration in Tigray is also buffering some of the impacts of the war on people and the environment by reducing the negative impact of conflict-driven vegetation loss.\xa0'], ['“Because of the environmental restoration program, Tigray had more vegetation and a more productive landscape than would otherwise have been the case,” said Doug Weir, CEOBS’ Research and Policy Director. “This protective function suggests that nature-based solutions may be able to help reduce some of the effects of armed conflicts on people and ecosystems.”\xa0Dispatch ']]}, {'Date': 'April 25, 2022', 'Header': '#ASDailyScoop: Ministry of Irrigation and Lowlands allocates 338 million ETB for drought-affected areas in Somali region', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – The Ministry of Irrigation and Lowlands announced that it has allocated 388 million ETB for the rehabilitation of areas affected by drought in the Somali region.'], ['The ministry conducted an informative session in Jijiga in regards to the areas of implementation for the set finances. It was during the session that it was publicized that the Somali region would receive rehabilitating aid through the project meant for improving livelihoods in lowland regions.\xa0'], ['The allotted amount was acquired through the financial assistance from the World Bank, according to the Ministry. Present at the said session were Mustafe Mohammed, president of the Somali region, Engineer Aisha Mohammed, minister of Irrigation and Lowlands, as well as other officials from the federal and regional levels. AS']]}, {'Date': 'April 21, 2022', 'Header': 'Op-ed: National Tree for Ethiopia’s environmental, economic, social welfare', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Teshome Hunduma (PhD) '], ['Addis Abeba – On 9 April 2022, Professor Emeritus Legesse Negash, from Addis Abeba University proposed the evergreen native tree, Podocarpus falcatus (Zigba in Amharic; Birbirssa in Afaan Oromo), as Ethiopia’s National Tree. He shared his proposal for Ethiopia’s National Tree on Twitter with a photo of the regal Podocarpus falcatus. On 15 April 2022, he crafted a letter specifying the value of native trees for Ethiopia’s environmental, economic, and social welfare. He then sent the letter to Tagesse Chafo, the Speaker of the House of Peoples’ Representatives, recommending Zigba as Ethiopia’s first National Tree.'], ['In his letter, Prof.Em. Legesse listed 18 examples of native tree and shrub species that are critical for restoring Ethiopia’s deteriorating ecosystem and highlighted 15 different environmental, socio-cultural, economic, and political importance of native tree and shrub species. Based on his decades of focused research on native tree propagation and restoration mechanisms and drawing from his many years of experience gained from founding and running a Center for Native Trees Propagation and Biodiversity Development in Ethiopia, Legesse proposes that it is high time for Ethiopia to designate one of its regal native tree species (Zigba) as a National Tree. In the same letter, he extended his offer for a public lecture based on his lifelong work on the propagation and restoration of mechanisms of native trees of Ethiopia.'], ['Green Legacy is an all-time initiative without a significant impact'], ['As the country without a National Tree, this proposal came when Ethiopia’s agricultural economy is confronted with dual threats of environmental degradation and food insecurity. With about 120 million mouths to feed, Ethiopia has been unable to decrease the depletion of its natural resources, making its agricultural economy vulnerable. Environmental degradation due to widespread deforestation, declining water resources, overgrazing, biodiversity loss, soil erosion, and soil fertility decline remain significant problems. In 2001, a study on the economics of Ethiopia’s land degradation by German and Ethiopian scientists estimated an annual soil loss rate of 42 tones/ha for croplands and up to 300 tones/ha in extreme cases reducing crop production and productivity. According to the study, this soil loss translates to 44 billion Ethiopian Birr investment for building soil and water conservation structures. 14.4 billion Ethiopian Birr per year was estimated to purchase chemical fertilizers to maintain crop production during the study period. It is clear that when agricultural production and productivity decline, food insecurity, poverty, starvation, and conflict will worsen. This can further catapult the political economy of the agricultural nation into suicidal chaos, which is guaranteed to happen should the degradation of the natural resource base continues unabated. '], ['“The current Ethiopian government’s Regreening Program has planned to restore one-sixth of the country’s degraded land. It has proposed planting about 22 billion trees, much of which are exotic, by the end of the 2022 rainy season.“'], ['I would like, however, to emphasize that there has not been a time in Ethiopian history when political regimes have not had policies to decrease environmental degradation. It has been a priority for different political regimes that Ethiopia had since Emperor Ya’qob’s order of re-afforesting Ethiopian mountains with the African pencilcedar (Juniperus procera or tsidd in Amharic; gattira in Afaan Oromo) in the 17th century. Building terraces and low walls to slow water erosion, the closure of large areas of bare land to allow natural regeneration of trees and vegetation, and widespread exotic tree plantations have been promoted by diverse actors in Ethiopia. Notice that this number of trees is far greater than twice the current population of the world, which means that Ethiopia ‘dares’ to ‘plant’ more than double the number of the world’s individuals in its tiny territory. Is this proposition physically and practically possible? ? Interestingly, the country has not yet successfully covered even a fraction of its extensively degraded landscapes with ecologically adapted trees; most of the trees planted so far are exotic trees such as Prosopis juliflora. Ethiopia has thus miserably fallen short of protecting its vital natural resources (soils, water, and biodiversity) and its people’s livelihoods.'], ['Draconian, top-down development approach remains problematic '], ['Despite good policies on paper and decades of actors’ environmental rehabilitation programs and projects, environmental degradation continues to pose an existential threat to the people of Ethiopia, whose lives are highly dependent on natural resources. The major problem is the continuing, ineffective top-down approach to agricultural development and environmental rehabilitation, despite uninterrupted advocacy by researchers and practitioners for a genuine participatory approach by involving the custodian of natural resources in Ethiopia, the smallholder farmers.'], ['For instance, critics of the Green Legacy initiative argue that the initiative is no more than the Prime Minister’s Photo ops and media attention, pointing to the low survival rate of the trees planted and the abysmal success rates of similar top-down initiatives. This calls for a genuine bottom-up process or decentralized practices of awareness-raising and environmental rehabilitation projects.'], [' Critics of the Green Legacy initiative argue that the initiative is no more than the Prime Minister’s Photo ops and media attention, pointing to the low survival rate of the trees planted and the abysmal success rates of similar top-down initiatives. '], ['Zigba as a National Tree'], ['The proposal of a specific tree species, i.e., Podocarpus falcatus, as a National Tree calls for broader participation of Ethiopia’s population for environmental rehabilitation and scholars and experts to assist various actors with state of the art in natural resource regeneration. Indeed, in a country where ecosystem, culture, ethnicity, and tree diversity abound, it is very important that the essence and implication of a National Tree are understood and accepted by Ethiopia’s representative communities and, through them, the general population. When this happens, the concept of a National Tree can have a unifying power beneficial for mass mobilization programs in environmental rehabilitation work.'], ['Zigba is viewed as “life,” “beauty,” “wealth,” “shade,” and “ancestor symbolizers” by some ethnolinguistic groups in Ethiopia.'], ['Important ideas should therefore start at some point by someone. For instance, the National Tree Day Motion was introduced by Royal Galipeau, a Member of the Parliament for Ottawa-Orléans in Canada. Mr. Galipeau’s enthusiasm for trees comes from 200 000 trees he, his son, father, and grandfather planted in eastern Ontario, Canada — the parallel we see from lifelong native tree propagation and restoration researcher Prof. Em. Legesse is now proposing Zigba as a National Tree. The Zigba tree Legesse proposed as National Tree, is the only representative of the family Podocarpaceae found in Ethiopia. Zigba is an evergreen tree species that can grow up to 40 meters, known by its former specific Latin name, gracilior, for the droopy nature of its elegant, beautiful, and graceful branches. The age of some Zigba trees in Ethiopia is estimated to be 500 years, and it stands out as one of the most beautiful multipurpose trees. According to Ethiopia’s prominent forest researcher, Dr. Demel Teketay, Zigba is known in 15 other languages across different ethnolinguistic groups in Ethiopia, showing its status as cultural keystone tree species. It is viewed as “life,” “beauty,” “wealth,” “shade,” and “ancestor symbolizers” by some ethnolinguistic groups in Ethiopia.'], ['Economically, Zigba is known for its high-class softwood and is used for fuelwood, charcoal, poles, paper pulp, shade, and ornamental purposes. For example, in the 1940s, Zigba was the then number one commercial timber species of Ethiopia, accounting for about 60% of the total trees felled. The oil extracted from its seeds is edible and used traditionally to treat gonorrhea. A recent study has identified natural products from Zigba roots that have the potential to treat cancer. For animals such as Ethiopia’s beautiful black and white colobus monkeys, its fruits are available all year round and serve as a food source at times of food scarcity. Historically, Zigba is remembered in connection with the Italian occupation of Ethiopia in the 1930s. At the time, Italians climbed onto the top of a female Podocarpus tree as a high post for monitoring the Ethiopian resistance army, as demonstrated by the metallic rung in the picture included in this opinion piece. Ecologically, Zigba is critical for soil and water conservation by breaking wind and slowing water erosion. Moreover, it creates a cool and refreshing environment for humans and animals during the driest and hottest seasons. No doubt, it is also an attraction for ecotourism since it endows landscapes with exquisite variations, similar to that imparted by the picturesque Acacia abyssinica (Grar/Laftoo).'], ['National Tree for grassroots mobilization'], ['The designation of Zigba as a National Tree is vital because Zigba brings native trees’ historical, cultural, social, economic, and political importance that Ethiopia’s ethnolinguistically diverse groups can easily associate themselves with. By so doing, a National Tree initiative can balance the top-down government environmental rehabilitation efforts. Specifically, it can complement the current Green Legacy Campaign of planting billions of trees in Ethiopia, although the meaning of ‘billions’ is controversial, as I have challenged above. For instance, this recognition can spark the planting of native trees in neighborhoods and school backyards, the establishment of native tree seedling and plantation centers across the country, awards and competition schemes by different actors for native tree planters and caretakers, educational tours, research on native trees, and tourism. In the long run, the concept of a National Tree can have a transformative effect, e.g., from the current eucalyptus-based monoculture plantation to ecologically sustainable, diverse native tree and shrub plantation if policy incentives like land ownership by farmers are guaranteed.'], ['In conclusion, Prof. Em. Legesse Negash’s proposal to make Zigba a National Tree and offer a lecture on his proposal to the Members of Ethiopia’s Parliamentarians is a litmus test for the Ethiopian government’s use of scientific knowledge and science-based decision-making to shape its environmental management approaches.'], ['']]}]
[{'Date': 'April 21, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Ethiopia conducts a measles vaccination campaign to respond to an outbreak in three regions', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – A measles vaccination campaign was conducted in Ethiopia from February to March 2022 in SNNP, Somali and Oromia regions targeting more than half a million children aged between 6 months to 10 years. The campaign aimed to stop the spread of a measles outbreak reported from 12 woredas (districts) in three regions: seven woredas of SNNP, one woreda of Guji Zone in Oromia, and four woredas of Somali putting more than 650,000 children at risk.'], ['Following the risk assessment and the detailed investigation report, the national Public Health Emergency Operations Center (EOC) together with the Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI) Technical Working Group recommended conducting a non-selective vaccination campaign. As per the recommendation, 21 woredas and one refugee camp in the three affected regions were targeted for the campaign.\xa0'], [' The campaign helped avert a high risk of morbidity and death in the targeted woredas since the risk of ongoing outbreak was high as the woredas shared borders and have also been affected by drought '], ['According to preliminary campaign reports, Somali Region achieved 104% coverage while SNNP and Oromia regions achieved 95% coverage. The campaign helped avert a high risk of morbidity and death in the targeted woredas since the risk of ongoing outbreak was high as the woredas shared borders and have also been affected by drought.\xa0'], ['The campaign was coordinated by the Ethiopian Public Health Institute (EPHI), regional public health emergency management (PHEM) teams, and zonal and woreda health offices in collaboration with partners such as WHO and UNICEF.'], ['WHO provided technical, financial and operational support to the investigation of the outbreak, response plan and vaccination campaign. Technical support to the campaign included district-level training of vaccinators and team supervisors. \xa0WHO experts were deployed to monitor and coordinate the campaign, including ensuring optimized cold-chain system and logistics are in place. They also guided vaccinators to ensure COVID-19 prevention measures were observed during the campaign.\xa0WHO \xa0']]}, {'Date': 'April 20, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Borana zone administration to prosecute  individuals engaged in stealing aid', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba: The administration of the Borana zone told the regional broadcaster that it has arrested and taken several measures against 56 individuals for allegedly stealing aid intended for drought relief. The administration added that it had captured many people partaking in the theft and had also started taking reinforced measures to bring the remaining perpetrators to the court of law.\xa0'], ['Jarso Boru, the administrator of the Borana Zone, said that the community contributed a great deal to the arrest of the suspected individuals. 12 people suspected of participating in illegal activities were arrested based on community tip, he said, adding, amongst these suspects are\xa0 5 individuals who were in the leadership echelons of Moyale city administration.\xa0\xa0'], ['Similar arrests were made in more woredas in the zone, according to Jarsoo. In Gomole, Guchi, Wachile, 44 individuals were arrested for alleged involvement in the stealing from food assistance intended for hunger-affected communities.'], ['Additionally, he said that those suspected of embezzling money [meant for distribution] that arrived through the safety net program of ‘Drought shock response’ in the Guchi wereda were placed under arrest and were under legal investigation.\xa0'], ['Feature: Conscription, forced contributions to army & aid obstruction aggravate starvation in Borana, #Oromia ; local admins blame "enemy propaganda" https://t.co/cGeJFARObS  AS\'s Dereje Gonfa investigated the situation in Wachile woreda in the Borana Zone'], ['In September last year, Addis Standard’s investigation revealed that individuals at leadership levels were expropriating the assistance for their own benefit. A resident of the zone told Addis Standard at the time that barriers from the local leadership were a reason for the existing food insecurities. Jilo Dido, the administrator of Wachile woreda, also admitted that aid was being expropriated by members of the local administration.\xa0'], ['Addis Standard’s attempt to gather information regarding the current measures being taken by the zonal administration were unsuccessful. The zonal police department said that it would not give information over the phone unless it is contacted in person. AS']]}, {'Date': 'April 19, 2022', 'Header': '#ASDailyScoop: National Blood bank announces nationwide shortage of blood; says reserve runs out in five days', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – Ethiopian Blood bank service today announced a nationwide shortage of blood. Ejegayehu Afework, the blood bank blood quality, and health assurance team leader at the Ethiopian national blood bank told Addis Standard that the shortage was a result of the ongoing two major fasting seasons of Christian and Muslim communities. Likewise, the director of blood donor services Dr. Temesgen Tafese, was quoted as saying that the country’s current blood storage will only be enough for five days. He mentioned that the O-type blood is especially in a very scarce situation.'], ['According to Ejegayehu, such incidents are familiar. “There is not only scarcity but it is also the fasting season. There has been successful blood collection in the past during the same seasons but in this case, we have experienced a huge shortage.”'], ['Ejegayehu told Addis Standard that as a solution the blood bank was sending short text messages to remind regular donors and calling upon new donors through media campaigns. “We do have ten mobile blood collectors in different parts of the city but since there is a shortage of donors, these mobile stations are not collecting as needed,”\xa0she said. '], ['The Ethiopian blood bank has been announcing a shortage of blood since April 6 through its social media platforms. AS']]}, {'Date': 'April 19, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Addis Abeba city peace and security bureau kicks off training for over 30, 000 ‘People’s Army’ members in all sub-cities', 'news_paragraphs': [['Getahun Tsegaye @GetahunTsegay12'], ['Addis Abeba – Lidiya Girma, deputy head of peace values department at the Addis Abeba city administration peace and security bureau, said that the bureau has embarked on strengthening “People’s Army” members in the city to prevent and control illegal activities. Accordingly, capacity-building training will be provided to over 30,000 members of the city’s “People’s Army” in all sub-cities as of 18 April.'], ['Subsequently, the City Administration launched the training program for members of the “People’s Army” in collaboration with Kirkos sub city where a two-day training kicked off on Monday.'], ['“The training aims at securing a sustainable peace and security throughout the city,” according to the City Administration’s Communication Bureau. Presented at the launching ceremony was Kenea Yadeta (PhD), head of the city administration peace and security bureau. Kenea said that securing the city’s peace and security without the participation of the public would not be fruitful.'], ['Similarly, Kirkos Sub City Manager, Zemenu Desalegn, on his part said that so as to secure the city’s peace and security, “every individual should actively safeguard their surroundings,” the communication bureau quoted him as saying. '], ['In November last year, the city administration organized tens of thousands of “community police” to patrol city’s neighborhoods after the federal government declared a six month nationwide state of emergency in the wake of the military advance by Tigrayn forces towards Addis Abeba.'], ['Speaking to Reuters, Commander Solomon Fantahun, director of community policing at Addis Abeba city police commission, said “police have trained 147,000 male and female volunteers in combating crimes, community policing, discipline, and physical fitness.”'], ['He said 2,000 volunteers have received additional training in conducting searches and assisting the police and that “they have helped capture weapons and direct police to suspects.”'], ['“These volunteers are the ears and eyes of the police,” Reuters quoted Solomon.'], ['According to Lidiya work was underway to reorganize the previously existing community police from central command to district levels based on residential blocs. The reorganization is aimed at making the structure community based. Members of the “People’s Army” will start operating in the near future, she said. AS']]}, {'Date': 'April 19, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Close to 37,000 newly displaced civilians in urgent need of humanitarian assistance in Konso Zone, SNNP State', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – Intercommunal violence that erupted in Konso zone of Southern Nations, Nationalities and Peoples (SNNP) region in southern Ethiopia led to a new wave of displacement. About 37,000 people were displaced from 10 Kebeles including about 19,000 women and girls, a new report by the UN said. '], ['“This includes the displacement of more than 32,000 people in Segen Zuria Woreda and more than 3,000 people in Karat Zuria Woreda (Fuchucha kebele) due to fighting between Konso and Derashe communities at the beginning of April. In the kebeles of Borqara, Mataragizaba, more than 1,000 persons have been displaced due to the violence, in the recent weeks”,the report said.'], ['According to Ale Special Woreda communications affairs office, community discussions are happening in various places to resolve the conflict in the adjacent areas of Konso and Ale Special Woreda. Efforts were also being made to relocate civilians who were displaced from Kerkerte Kebelle, Lageno sub-village and relocated to Maderia and Gizaba, Borqara, and Gegnara areas, and other areas to their areas of residence. When the IDPs arrived in Kekerte Kebele, Oybato Bane, they were warmly welcomed by the Karkere people, the bureau said. '], [' The volatile security situation, particularly in Segen Zuria Woreda, is hindering the provision of additional critical assistance such as shelter, non-food items, water, sanitation and hygiene as well as health services '], ['The UN report said most of the displaced people are currently staying with the host communities in Segen Zuria and Karat Zuria woredas. Others are taking refuge in existing IDP sites in the zone. The regional authorities provided limited assistance to the affected population including 50 metric tons of food.'], ['The volatile security situation, particularly in Segen Zuria Woreda, is hindering the provision of additional critical assistance such as shelter, non-food items, water, sanitation and hygiene as well as health services. Partners on the ground are working on a rapid joint assessment to gain a better understanding of the needs of the displaced population.'], ['On 27 March, Geremu Gelebo, head of the revenue bureau of the surrounding districts of Segen woreda, was gunned down while dining in a hotel with his friends. Gadissa Karo, head of the woreda’s peace and security bureau, told Addis Standard that four suspects were arrested suspected of the killing of Geremu.'], ['The Konso zone continued witnessing sporadic clashes that claim the lives of civilians especially over the past two years. Gudata Kutano, a member of the peace committee in the neighboring Kolme cluster kebeles, told Addis Standard that these clashes often result in the death and displacement of civilians.'], ['A report released by Ethiopian Human Rights Commission (EHRC) in December 2020 detailed the sustained attacks in Konso zone and proposed some recommendations including transparent investigation into the role of officials within government structures and improving the measures to control increasing transfers of illegal firearms in the Konso Zone area.'], ['“The underlying problems behind the longstanding insecurity in Konso Zone and its surroundings has not been given appropriate attention. The sheer number of people displaced, and that some of them are being displaced for the fifth time, is a tragic humanitarian crisis. While the provision of humanitarian assistance to the displaced is an urgent priority, the federal and regional governments need to work together with the local population to find a solution that will restore lasting peace to the area,” said Daniel Bekele, EHRC Chief Commissioner. AS']]}]
[{'Date': 'April 18, 2022', 'Header': '#ASDailyScoop: Russian Embassy denies long queue of Ethiopians to join Russian army, says queue show of solidarity', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – The Russian Embassy in Addis Abeba denied that pictures and information circulating on Social Media showing long queue of Ethiopians at the entrance of the Embassy in Addis Abeba were Ethiopians waiting in line to join the Russian army in its invasion of Ukraine. But admitted that the queue was that of Ethiopians lined up to show solidarity. '], [' Russian embassy Press attaché Maria Chernukhina told AlAin website that “Russia has not advertised to recruit Ethiopians for the war in Ukraine, and the information circulation social media is false.” But she said it was true that Ethiopians had gone to the embassy “to show their solidarity with Russia.”  The Press attache also said that many Ethiopians were sending email and delivering messages in person that they are on Russia’s side in the war against Ukraine, and Russia “thanks them.”  '], ['Meanwhile, the embassy of Ukraine in Addis Abeba informed a fact checking website, Ethiopia Check, that  “this is a tragic happening. If an Ethiopian dies in this war, it will be a tragedy for both Ukraine and Ethiopia.” AS']]}, {'Date': 'April 18, 2022', 'Header': 'News: CETU asks government to ratify  ILO’s domestic workers, migration for employment, violence, harassment conventions', 'news_paragraphs': [['Biruk Alemu @Birukalemu21'], ['Addis Abeba – The Confederation of Ethiopian Trade Unions (CETU) called on the government to ratify International labor laws related to domestic workers, immigrant workers, and harassment in workplaces.\xa0'], ['The confederation asked the government for the ratification and effective implementation of\xa0 ILO’s convention migration for employment convention no.97 and migrant workers convention no.143, domestic workers convention no.189, and violence and harassment convention no.190.'], ['“Our country is home to millions of migrant workers and hundreds of thousands of domestic and international domestic workers. We launched a campaign to ratify the conventions and make them part of our country’s law,” said Kassahun Follo, president of the confederation. The laws will enable the establishment of a good migrant labor force that will protect victims of violence and harassment and ensure gender equality, he added.'], ['The president explained that unemployment, poverty, incessant and prolonged conflicts, lack of equitable distribution of wealth, climate change and natural disasters, famine, population growth, and other factors have made the country a source of increasing labor migration. According to him,\xa0 in the last five years alone, more than 839,000 Ethiopians, the majority of which are women fled the country.\xa0'], ['There are up to 53 million domestic workers worldwide who suffer from poor working conditions, unsafe insurance, unpaid wages, physical and sexual abuse, forced labor, and human trafficking, the president explained.\xa0'], ['In Ethiopia, there are no laws regulating the issue of domestic workers and employee relationships making domestic workers vulnerable to abuses, Kassahun noted. The president called on the government, partners, and other stakeholders to work toward the proper management of labor issues. He vowed that the confederation will continue pushing the government to ratify and implement international conventions No. 189, 97, 143, and 190.'], ['The confederation called on the government to provide a lasting solution for industrial park workers in light of the revocation of Ethiopia’s AGOA benefits, at its half-year conference last week.\xa0 AS']]}, {'Date': 'April 15, 2022', 'Header': 'News: HoF to draft policy requiring regional states to disclose all sources of funding', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Firaol Bersisa @ FiraolBer'], ['Addis Abeba: The House of Federation (HoF) announced that it is devising a new policy that obliges regional states to report to the house all their sources of revenues as well as clarify the distribution of the amount collected.\xa0'], ['House member, Hailu Ifa, secretary of the standing committee on subsidies budget and joint revenue said that the house found it necessary to devise the policy to put in place a framework of monitoring and support. “The federal government provides subsidies to regional states but there was never a directive to monitor and support the source of funding,” he said.\xa0'], ['Regional states mainly acquire their revenue from the federal government, covering over 60% of their annual budget. In the fiscal year of 2014 E.C, the federal government had a total budget of 561.6 billion ETB, of which, 203 billion ETB was allocated to regions as assistance budgets, based on a distribution scheme formulated by the House. In addition to these assistance budget packages, regions collect revenue, from different sources which are utilized to implement projects'], ['Director of Fiscal Affairs and Study for Equitable Growth of the Regions, Waktole Dadi (Asst. Professor), told the Reporter that regions collect money from federal ministries, and other governmental and non-governmental organizations and said that this new policy would compel them to make their revenue known.\xa0'], ['He added that the basis for allocation of these budget packages to the regions is dependent upon the existing needs for infrastructure and population size, however, the lack of disclosure on their revenue, has meant the assistance packages also affected a disparity in the growth of the regions.\xa0'], ['Further explaining the consequences of such context, Waktole said, “The federal government, ministries, and different non-governmental organizations offer financial assistance to the regions, and sometimes zones and woredas, without assessing their needs. Consequently, there has been a waste of public finances and differences between the regions ’’\xa0'], ['He added that the regions gather finances in the name of projects every year and some of these projects have been pending for years, which in turn caused a wastage of finances, resources that the federal government acquires from different partners, in the name of the national populace.'], ['The HoF regulates the aforementioned support packages, however, due to it not being informed, it can not regulate the revenue regions garnered from other sources, he added.\xa0\xa0'], ['The policy being developed will allow the House to be cognizant,\xa0 through regular channels,\xa0 of the other sources of revenue for the regions and subsequently provide a retort to the questions of fairness being raised on the distribution of the federal financial packages, he explained.\xa0'], ['‘’ The House has never participated in regulating revenues to date, however, the new policy will change this by obliging disclosure and accordingly preventing inter-regional growth discrepancies,’’ he said.'], ['The policy, designed in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, will soon come into force, and as such the HoF has sent a letter requesting assistance to the World Bank for a study to be conducted on regional revenues.\xa0'], ['The House is expected to compose a new formulation for regional allocations of support budgets after two years and as such work is being done to erect a body that will review the population size, study regional financial capacities and regulate the support budgets, he stated. AS']]}, {'Date': 'April 14, 2022', 'Header': 'News: South Omo zone appeals for government help after “very tragic” unrest displaces thousands', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – The administration of South Omo zone in Southern Nations, Nationalities and People’s regions state (SNNPRS) appealed for government help to rehabilitate thousands of civilians displaced by a “very tragic” unrest over the weekend.'], ['South Omo Zone Chief Administrator, Nigatu Dansa, and other senior government officials visited the displaced civilians and the injured where Nigatu described the unrest as “very tragic” and promised that legal and administrative measures would be taken against the perpetrators resolve the problem from its root, according to the South Omo zone communication affairs bureau. '], ['On 11 April, Demo Bezabih, the Deputy Administrator of the Zone and Head of the Peace and Security Department, said that 132 suspects were initially arrested suspected of involvement in the unrest of whom 22 individuals have since been released. '], ['#Ethiopia–#Analysis:Uneasy calm returns in #Jinka, environs; more than 30 detained after days of unrest leaves trail of displacement,property destruction https://t.co/i9JIxCQkm7 Unrest in #SouthOmo zone resulted in various damages.@EteneshAb talked to local official & a resident.'], ['The chief administrator said a team was sent from the regional state to investigate the unrest and will work to rehabilitate the internally displaced civilians who are currently sheltered at Metser secondary High School. The victims have said that they have no problem with the Ari community request for zonal administration and that they support the request but they want the government to help rehabilitate them as soon as possible, the bureau said.'], [' The unrest has caused heavy property damage in Metser, Tolta, and several areas of South Ari Woreda where the residents fled from and have sought refuge in religious institutions, schools, and police stations. '], ['The displaced victims have received temporary relief aid including nutritional food, sugar and salt compiled from individuals and institutions. On 12 April, South Omo Zone Red Cross Society Branch Office provided food and clothing to the displaced civilians from Tolta, Metser and Barka districts in the zone.'], ['The unrest has caused heavy property damage in Metser, Tolta, and several areas of South Ari Woreda where the residents fled from and have sought refuge in religious institutions, schools, and police stations.'], ['Since Sunday 10 April morning, members of the Ethiopian National Defense Forces (ENDF), regional police and special forces were deployed in key areas where the unrest erupted, bringing a relative calm to the area. A command post was also established to oversee the security forces’ operations; it has announced that as of Sunday it has banned motorbikes in the areas until further notice. AS']]}, {'Date': 'April 14, 2022', 'Header': '#ASDailyScoop: Silte zone cautions against recurring fire accidents in warmest season', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – The Sankurra woreda communications bureau in Silte zone of the Southern Nations Nationalities and People’s Region (SNNPR)\xa0 warned the residents to take heed of the increasing incidents of sudden fire accidents and to protect property through prevention and control.\xa0'], ['This comes in light of what the bureau says were, “different fire incidents across kebeles following the summer months’’ causing massive property damage. And as such, the bureau expressed that the community should execute precautionary measures to prevent and control the intensifying destruction of property during the windy and warm season. AS']]}]
[{'Date': 'April 13, 2022', 'Header': 'News: UNSC to debate conflict-related sexual violence; annual report includes Ethiopia for first time', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba  –  Members of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) will hold the annual open debate on conflict-related sexual violence today. This year’s theme is titled “Accountability as Prevention: Ending Cycles of Sexual Violence in Conflict.” According to a dispatch on Security Council report portal, “for the first time, this year’s annual report includes a section on Ethiopia, which mainly refers to the findings of the November 2021 joint report by the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) and the Ethiopian Human Rights Commission, the national human rights institution of Ethiopia.”  '], ['The OHCHR/HRC joint report investigated “alleged human rights violations and abuses, and violations of international humanitarian law, and refugee law committed in the context of the conflict in Tigray.” '], ['The report identified several forms of conflict-related abuses including sexual violence against women and girls as well as men, boys and older women and women with disability. The report implicated parties to the conflict, including the Ethiopian National Defense Forces (ENDF), and Eritrean Defense Forces (EDF) and said that “there are reasonable grounds to believe that some of the acts of sexual violence committed by EDF were “marked with extreme brutality.” '], ['The UNSC meeting today will be chaired by Lord (Tariq) Ahmad of Wimbledon, UK Minister of State for South Asia, North Africa, the UN and the Commonwealth, and the UK Prime Minister’s Special Representative on Preventing Sexual Violence in Conflict. Special Representative on Sexual Violence in Conflict Pramila Patten and 2018 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate and UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) Goodwill Ambassador Nadia Murad are expected to brief. Two civil society representatives are also expected to brief. AS ']]}, {'Date': 'April 13, 2022', 'Header': 'News: World Bank approves $300 m grant for Ethiopia conflict recovery response', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – The World Bank has approved a $300 million International Development Association (IDA) grant for the “Response-Recovery-Resilience for Conflict-Affected Communities in Ethiopia Project,” according to statement from the Bank. “The project will support efforts to address the immediate needs of communities, rehabilitate/recover infrastructure destroyed by conflict, and increase community resilience to the impacts of conflict in a sustainable manner,” the dispatch said. '], ['“Specifically, the project will help to improve access to basic services, as well as rebuild climate-resilient infrastructure, prioritized by communities. To urgently meet the needs of conflict-affected communities, mobile units will be dispatched to provide key services including in the areas of education, health, water, and sanitation. The project will also provide GBV survivors with improved access to the services and comprehensive care needed to recover from the impacts of the violence they experienced. Furthermore, it will support prevention interventions to address the underlying norms and dynamics that perpetuate GBV,” the World Bank further said. '], [' “…the project has a national geographic scope, initially prioritizing support to the Afar, Amhara, Benishangul-Gumuz, Oromia, and Tigray regions, which have been highly impacted by the recent conflict and host large numbers of internally displaced peoples (IDPs)” '], ['Commenting on the grant, Ousmane Dione, World Bank Country Director for Eritrea, Ethiopia, South Sudan, and Sudan, said, “Survivors of gender-based violence suffer devastating effects to their physical and mental health. In conflict-affected areas, they are unable to get the support they need to recover from trauma and be able to move forward. This project will help to improve access to health, psychosocial support, and legal services for GBV survivors in conflict-affected regions where quality response services are limited.” '], ['Conflicts in Ethiopia have resulted in loss of lives, humanitarian crises, destruction of private and public assets and have left communities in dire need of support. Furthermore, conflicts have caused the displacement of thousands of people throughout the country and have further exacerbated the incidence of gender-based violence (GBV), with widespread reports of physical and sexual violence, particularly against women and girls.'], ['The Bank said that the project has a national geographic scope, initially prioritizing support to the Afar, Amhara, Benishangul-Gumuz, Oromia, and Tigray regions, which have been highly impacted by the recent conflict and host large numbers of internally displaced peoples (IDPs). To ensure rapid and efficient support that is adapted to local contexts, the project will be implemented by federal, regional, and community-based organizations. It will also be implemented by independent third-party entities, particularly in high-risk areas with ongoing conflict.'], ['“While the project’s main focus is providing quick support to meet the urgent need of conflict-affected communities, it will also support Ethiopia to advance towards a sustainable recovery pathway by investing in institutions, communities, and policies. This will help build an inclusive and resilient future for conflict-affected communities in Ethiopia.” '], ['IDA'], ['The World Bank’s International Development Association (IDA), established in 1960, helps the world’s poorest countries by providing grants and low to zero-interest loans for projects and programs that boost economic growth, reduce poverty, and improve poor people’s lives. IDA is one of the largest sources of assistance for the world’s 74 poorest countries, 39 of which are in Africa. Resources from IDA bring positive change to the 1.3 billion people who live in IDA countries. Since 1960, IDA has provided $458 billion to 114 countries. Annual commitments have averaged about $29 billion over the last three years (FY19-FY21), with about 70 percent going to Africa. Dispatch ']]}, {'Date': 'April 13, 2022', 'Header': '#ASDailyScoop: Chief admin of Simurobi Gele’alo in Afar state appeals for urgent help after fire ravages woreda', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – Hassen Handeye, the chief administrator of the woreda which was ravaged by fire on the night of April 11, said that the residents of the woreda are in urgent need of assistance as they continue to suffer water shortage due to a prior electric outage, during this season of Ramadan.'], ["#ASDailyScoop: Fire destroys over 160 residences, shops in Simurobi Gele'alo woreda, #Afar state https://t.co/qJzYuVk435 Woreda Administrator, Hassan Handi, said the fire broke out from a kerosene shop at around 10:00 PM local time last night. There are no human causalities."], ['‘’People have been displaced from their houses, emergency aid is needed; food, potable water, clothes, and shelter are urgently required,’’ said Hassen. Hassen notes that the fire caused significant property damage, including destroying 80 businesses and 500,000 ETB worth of merchandise and cash within them as well 80 residences also with 200,000 ETB worth of goods and cash.\xa0 Calculating the financial costs of the accident, he says, nearly 56 million birr worth of damages were caused excluding the destroyed merchandise, goods, and cash with the properties. He, however, stated that no human lives were lost as a result of the disaster.\xa0'], ['The lack of fire fighting and prevention mechanisms in the surrounding towns of Debreberhan and Showa Robit has also meant that destruction could not be mitigated, he adds. Hassen stressed that electric utility services must also contribute their own share in alleviation and rectified the initial assumption that the fire was started due to kerosene and said electrical wiring contact that then spread to the kerosene shop.\xa0AS']]}, {'Date': 'April 13, 2022', 'Header': '#ASDailyScoop: Addis Abeba City to kick start cadastral registration as of today', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – Addis Abeba City Administration Landholding Registration and Information Agency announced that cadasteral registration and proclamation work will be carried out from today through September 10, 2022.'], ['The Director General of the Agency, Kifle Gebre, said in a press briefing today residents of the city who have not previously registered their land holdings can prepare their data for the next 15 days.'], ['The Agency said the city administration has been working on landholding registration and verification (cadastre) for the past 10 years. During this year, the agency plans to carry out the cadastral registration and declaration works of 25 districts located within 10 sub-cities, excluding the newly restructured Lemi Kura sub-city. Lemi Kura had become the 11th sub-city after portions of land from Bole and Yeka sub-cities was subtracted and designated by the City Council in October 2020.'], ['Kifle further said that during the validation and declaration process which is scheduled to run through September, no name transfer will take place during this period except for lands facing legal issues and disputes.'], ['Jamal Haji (Eng), the Deputy Director General of the Agency, on his part said that in the years between 2015 and 2018 the city administration had registered more than 118,000 plots of land and more than 161,000 condominium houses using the cadastral registration. He added that community observers will be involved to ensure the current cadastral registration process is credible. AS']]}, {'Date': 'April 12, 2022', 'Header': 'Analysis: Uneasy calm returns in Jinka, environs; more than 130 detained  after days of unrest leaves trail of displacement, property destruction', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Etenesh Abera @Eteneshab'], ['Addis Abeba – After a week-long unrest left unknown numbers of displacement and damage to several properties in various places including in and around Jinka city, the capital of South Omo zone in Southern Nations, Nationalities and People’s Regional State (SNNPR), the regional Police Commission Commissioner, Alemayehu Mamo, said that more than 133 individuals, including four local police officers, were arrested in connection with the unrest. The commissioner further said that among the detained include those who participated in the unrest and “those within the local administration structure and social media influencers who call themselves as community representatives.”  '], ['The local police said one person was also killed particularly during the unrest over the past weekend. However, a source from the area who wanted to remain anonymous for fear of reprisal told Addis Standard by phone that the number of people who were killed was “five.”'], ['The Ari community, in South Omo zone, has been pushing for increased self-administration in a form of a separate zonal status for Ari Woreda and increased infrastructure including roads, hospitals and schools for the local community. Melaku Lemma, communications bureau head of South Omo zone, confirmed to Addis Standard by phone that the start of the unrest was related to the question of the zonal structure requested by the Ari people. “Four Ari woredas within the South Omo zone brought forward a question of zonal structure after they had gained approval to their appeal at thier respective councils three months ago, Melaku said. In the last zonal council meeting held recently, the agenda was expected to be approved by the South Omo zone council and proceed to the next level.  But because of the ongoing new structural adjustments, “the agenda was not tabled which created unrest in the society,” Melaku said. '], ['The Council has apologized and promised to make the request its agenda item for subsequent meeting. '], ['According to the source who spoke with Addis Standard, the question of the Ari community is not just about the zonal structure alone but included request for adequate political representation of the Ari people, since the community is the largest group of the 16 different nationalities within the South Omo zone. '], [' “After the zonal council failed to floor the agenda, the dispute started.’’ '], ['As for Melaku, the question of the zonal structure was unanswered because the region (SNNPR) is working on new zonal and woreda structures after the two new administrative zones, Sidama and South West Ethiopia Peoples’ region, were created at regional state levels.'], ['The question for a zonal structure will be answered by the regional council; what is expected from the zonal council is a mere approval the the Ari woreda’s council appeal, according to Melaku. “After the zonal council failed to floor the agenda, the dispute started.’’ Melaku added that, the apology from the council to the Ari community was due to the failure to address the request as was promised.'], [' “The tension between the Ari community and other groups intensified after a peace rally was held in Jinka by members of Sheken“'], ['The apology was also communicated to a local youth group called “Sheken” that is actively organizing and pushing for the requests of the Ari community to be approved. However, tension kept growing between the “Sheken” group and others opposing the push by Ari community. As a result, unrest that lasted for three consecutive days over the weekend resulted in property damage including burning of shops, residential quarter and local government offices in cities and towns in South Omo zone, including the capital Jinka, Gazer, Tolta, and Matser, among others.  '], ['“The tension between the Ari community and other groups intensified after a peace rally was held in Jinka by members of “Sheken”, the source told Addis Standard. A large group youth opposing the “Sheken’ group “encircled the house of a young and popular Ari personality at night,” he said. The person, whose name the source didn’t want to disclose, was unharmed, but the youth were angry that local security forces failed to prevent the intimidation. “Ari community members asked for justice and accountability in regards to this figure and afterwards a serious unrest followed, manifested by the burning of houses,” he said. “There is an ongoing mass arrest of Ari community members which has continued as of last night.” '], ['More than 40 households are estimated to have been displaced after their houses were burned down.'], ['“Days after the zonal administration’s apology to the public, there were exchanges of gunfire between government security forces and those who were asking for the zonal administration structure,’’ Melaku said. “On Saturday 09 April evening there were huge gunfire, and residences and shops were burned and looted,” Melaku said. The unrest was particularly severe in the towns of Gazer, Tolta and Shisher, all found within the vicinity of the zonal capital, Jinka.  '], ['Since Sunday 10 April morning, members of the Ethiopian National Defense Forces (ENDF), regional police and special forces were deployed in key areas where unrest erupted, bringing a relative calm, Melaku added. Those who were displaced from the surrounding areas are returning back to their homes. A command post established to oversee the security forces’ operations has announced that as of Sunday it has banned motorbikes in the areas until further notice. AS ']]}]
[{'Date': 'April 12, 2022', 'Header': 'News: As Ethiopia continues repatriating nationals from Saudi, local police apprehend 90 trying to illegally cross border', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – The communications bureau of Bati Woreda, located in Oromo Special Zone of Amhara regional state, says the local police has apprehended more than 90 migrants trying to leave the country through the border in Afar region last week. Bati Woreda which neighbors the Afar state, has become a crossing hub for the irregular migrants opting to leave the country through Djibouti to Middle East countries.\xa0'], ['On 07 April, Bati town communications bureau reported that 22 people, 10 men and 12 women, who were trying to cross the border illegally had been arrested while traveling on a minivan that tried to run through a checkpoint. The group was later taken into police custody. According to the local police, the travelers, originally from south Wollo, Shewa Robit and Borana Woredas in Amhara state, were assembled by human traffickers to flee the country.\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0'], ['On Saturday 09 April, another group of 74 people who were trying to cross the border illegally were arrested . This second group had 50 men and 24 women irregular migrants, according to the bureau. They were traveling by FSR truck when members of the national defense forces apprehended them.\xa0'], ['This comes weeks after the Ethiopian government started repatriation of Ethiopian nationals languishing in detention facilities and prisons in the Kingdom Saudi Arabia. Reports show that there are more than 100,000 Ethiopian nationals languishing in these detention facilities and prisons in the Kingdom, where the Saudi government started a crackdown including those with legal status as highlighted in a previous report.'], ['A research conducted in Wollo, northeastern Ethiopia, showed that the area has emerged as one of the most important points of origin for migrants traveling to the Middle East through Djibouti Previously, migration was “step migration”, initiated in rural areas from which migrants would travel to the capital Addis Abeba and then to the Middle Eastern countries. However, the trend has now shifted to direct migration from rural areas such as Wollo.\xa0'], ['Addis Standard’s multiple attempts to contact the Bati Woreda communications bureau and police to get further information were not successful. AS']]}, {'Date': 'April 12, 2022', 'Header': '#ASDailyScoop: Fire destroys over 160 residences, shops in Simurobi Gele’alo woreda, Afar state', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – A fire accident that broke last night has destroyed than 160 shops and residential houses in Simurobi Gele’alo Woreda of the Afar Regional State, Afar Mass Media reporter. '], ['According to the Woreda Administrator, Hassan Handi, the fire broke out from a kerosene shop in the area at around 10:00 PM local time last night.'], ['Hassan said that while additional inspections on the extent of the damage were still ongoing, so far more than 80 residential homes and about 80 shops were destroyed in the blaze, but no casualties were reported. The presence of strong wind and shortage of water to extinguish the blaze has exacerbated the damage.'], ['Hassan called for help to rehabilitate the victims and said caution should be exercised as there is increased risk of fire accidents in the areas where many of the kerosene markets are taking place. AS']]}, {'Date': 'April 11, 2022', 'Header': 'News Analysis: Parliament appoints gov’t officials as board members of media authority violating the law', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Getahun Tsegaye @GetahunTsegay12'], ['Addis Abeba – The Ethiopian Media Authority (EMA) got new board members last week, after Parliament approved the appointment of nine nominees forwarded to it by Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed, raising controversy in its wake. The freshly appointed members have alarmed many media houses who called it a threat for the independence of media as the appointment included individuals affiliated with the ruling party, which clearly violateed the media proclamation.\xa0'], ['The House of Peoples’ Representatives (HoPR), approved nine board members for EMA on Thursday, April 7 of 2022 contravened the Media Proclamation Proclamation No. 1238/2021 that the HoPR ratified in April 2021.'], [' Article 9 (2) in part two of the proclamation, stipulates that members of the board must be appointed openly and transparently and shall in the process allow the public to nominate '], ['Article 9 (2) in part two of the proclamation, stipulates that members of the board must be appointed openly and transparently and shall in the process allow the public to nominate and share their opinions of candidates. It, however, did not happen on Thursday, April 7 when Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed recruited nine nominees solely and gave their names to the HoPR.'], ['The appointments of government officials were another aspect of the procedure that violated the proclamation. During the session, among the nine board members, the HoPR appointed members of the ruling Prosperity Party, including Ambassador Redwan Hussien, State Minister of Foreign Affairs, and Agaredech Jemaneh (Ph.D.), an assistant lecturer at Addis Abeba University.\xa0 Article 11(6) in the same section clearly stated that a member or employee of a political party is not eligible to be a board member of the EMA.\xa0'], ['The Ethiopian mass media professionals association urged the HoPR to reconsider the decision, considering key national role of the media. The association criticized the appointment and said, “It not only shows utter non-compliance with the law but also undermines public confidence in the legislature.”\xa0'], ['One of the people who partook in drafting the media law spoke with the Reporter\xa0 \xa0on conditions of anonymity said, “The decision of the parliament is shocking. It is a mistake and an apparent contempt to the general public, the democratic process, and the media sector,”\xa0 adding, “unless the Parliament takes immediate corrective measures to rectify the problem, there would be grave consequences, especially when the parliament violates its own proclamation. It is really frustrating.’’ The media expert described the process as “a clear and deliberate violation of the media law.”'], ['The proclamation states that EMA shall be independent and free, mainly from the government and political parties’ influence. It further stipulates that among its objectives, the authority is vested power to fully enforce the rights of freedom of expression and of the media which is guaranteed under the Constitution. \xa0AS']]}, {'Date': 'April 8, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Confederation of Ethiopian trade Unions calls on government to pay heed to fate of industrial park workers; demand lasting solution to soaring inflation', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Etenesh Abera @EteneshAb & Biruk Alemu @Birukalemu21'], ['Addis Abeba – The confederation of Ethiopian trade Unions yesterday held its mid-year conference where it urged the government to bring a solution to the fate of employees of industrial parks. The confederation also demanded a long-lasting solution for the high living costs faced by workers throughout the country, especially for those with low income.'], ['Speaking at the conference, the president of the confederation Kassahun Follo, said, “Some workers are unable to feed themselves let alone their families.”\xa0 He noted that the rising in the living cost in Ethiopia started way earlier than the Covid pandemic,\xa0 the war in Tigray, and the war between Ukraine and Russia.'], ['“During the Covid pandemic,\xa0 the government set new guidelines and applied debt cancellation for investors. This may have saved jobs in some sectors but others like hotels partially or fully stopped their operations leaving many out of jobs,” the president said.\xa0\xa0'], ['The president specifically discussed the two major outcomes of the war in Tigray which brought that affected the lives of industrial park employees. “The first is the destruction of industrial parks, such as Kombolcha industrial parks, and the cancellation of Ethiopia from the United States, Africa Growth and Opportunity\xa0 Act (AGOA),’ he recalled. He went on to discuss the economic crisis suffered by employees who were laid off.\xa0Kassahun stated that the confederation took it upon itself to address the revocation of AGOA benefits by reaching out to the US Congress members. He said that they were told to convince the Ethiopian government to facilitate the humanitarian supply for Tigray region and the issue would be solved in no time.'], ['The president also revealed that the confederation is having ongoing discussions with the US Embassy in Addis Abeba about the issue. AS']]}, {'Date': 'April 8, 2022', 'Header': '#ASDailyScoop: Condominium Contractors unpaid for up to two years; Housing Corp. blames inability to raise bond loans', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – Contractors who are engaged in the construction of state-managed condominiums projects in the capital Addis Abeba said they were subjected to various social crises because they had not been paid for up to two years. In some cases, even payments that were approved as recently as June last year were not disbursed to the Contractors.'], ['As a result, the Contractors were unable to pay their workers and are forced to disperse them without paying their salaries, which in tern resulted in halting construction works. The absence of security guards, who had to be laid off their work, were also exposing the unfinished condominium houses to extensive thefts and property damages. Furthermore, the contractors were unable to service loans owed to various banks, deepening the social and economic problems they were facing.'], ['The contractors, who spoke to party owned FanaBC, said they had repeatedly approached the offices of relevant authorities including the Addis Abeba Housing Development Corporation and the city Administration, for payments to the works they have done, but had not received a proper response.'], ['Gashaw Tefera, Communication Bureau head at the Addis Abeba Housing Development Corporation Communication Director, admitted the payment delayed but said it was because the Corporation was unable to raise bond loans due to various man-made and natural disasters the country including drought, locust invasion, the war in northern Ethiopia. Gashaw also mentioned the construction of the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam (GERD), which required the government’s full attention.'], ['Gashaw said he was unsure as to when the contractors will be paid because “the money is not in our hands” but as soon as the bond loan is released the contractors who are under the Corporation will have priority to receive payments. AS']]}]
[{'Date': 'April 8, 2022', 'Header': 'News Alert: Desert Locust invades over 400 hectares of land in Borana zone, Oromia region', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – Locust invades over 400 hectares of land in Taltaallee woreda of the Borana zone, Oromia region, the regional communication bureau said. The swarm covered five kebeles;\xa0 Makkanniisa, Gandhiile, El-kunee, Wandoo Digre in the woreda, the regional government stated.\xa0'], ['The statement quoted the director of monitoring and evaluation of the woreda’s farm and environmental protection bureau, Yohaned Engida as saying that the locust invasion threatens the planned harvest and the existing vegetation.\xa0'], ['The head of the woreda’s farm and environmental protection bureau, Birhane Amare on his part stated that the bureau has so far sprayed insecticide on only 30 hectares out of the 400 hectares covered by the desert locust.\xa0 He added that crop- dusting planes are not currently available and that the task is being carried out by the use of cars. He underlined that this will not suffice to mitigate the invasion.\xa0'], ['Birhanu urged that immediate action is needed ahead of harvesting. AS']]}, {'Date': 'April 8, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Thirteen die as eleven regions in Ethiopia see meningitis outbreak: WHO', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – A new report on “Outbreaks and other Emergencies” published by the World Health Organization (WHO) on 03 April said 13 deaths (case fatality ratio (CFR) 0.9%) and a total of 1 398 suspected meningitis cases have been reported from 11 out of 12 regions in Ethiopia. Of these four regions: Oromia, Somali, SNNPR, Amhara, “crossed the epidemic threshold”, and five regions – Harari, Afar, Addis Abeba city Administration, Benishangul-Gumuz and Gambella –  “crossed the alert threshold” of meningitis outbreak. '], [' Oromia region has been the most affected, reporting 610 (44%) cases, followed by Somali with 211 (15%) cases '], ['According to the report, a meningitis outbreak has been ongoing in Ethiopia since week 49 of 2021 – ending 12 December. '], ['“Five regions, namely Oromia, Somali, SNNPR, Amhara, and Harari account for 87.8% (1 228 cases) of the total suspected meningitis cases reported. Oromia region has been the most affected, reporting 610 (44%) cases, followed by Somali with 211 (15%) cases, and SNNPR with 154 (11%) cases.” '], ['The report said Ethiopia was one of the African countries “affected with both armed conflict and natural disasters” – drought, disease outbreaks – including the ongoing meningitis outbreak. “Although a relatively low CFR has been recorded for the meningitis outbreak, it is important that the necessary actions are implemented for its control and prevent any deterioration.” '], ['Pre-deployment training was conducted for the Rapid Response teams; as well as capacity building for laboratory management is ongoing and cerebrospinal fluid collection from suspected meningitis cases continues. “Samples are being shipped to the regional referral laboratories. The government is ensuring adequate case management. The request for Ceftriaxone antibiotic for case management was submitted to the International Coordinating Group (ICG)” WHO said. '], ['However, the recommended that in-country laboratory capacity building should be considered as a priority to prevent any delay in diagnosis of the bacterial pathogen and request the required vaccine for the response. “The national authorities and partners should provide adequate funds, logistics and drugs for case management.” AS']]}, {'Date': 'April 7, 2022', 'Header': 'Feature analysis: Lives Uprooted by war: From Wag Hemra zone to the streets of Addis Abeba', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Etenesh Abera @Eteneshab'], ['Addis Abeba – A group of young girls, some carrying infants on their backs, go around cars asking for bucks in the bustling streets around the traffic light stop in Figa Sahlite Mihret in Bole sub-city of the capital. From a distance, this scene is nothing out of the ordinary in Addis Abeba. But from close up, this group of girls is no ordinary homeless people asking for coins.\xa0 These women are farmers who fled the war in the Wag Hemra zone of the Amhara region.\xa0'], ['Silas 18, is a mother of one who fled from Tsagebj woreda of Wag Hemra zone now living in the streets of Addis Abeba. “ It took us two weeks to reach Addis Abeba by foot,” she told Addis Standard. Back home, Silas and her family made a living by farming. After fleeing the war with her husband and arriving in Addis, and the family resorted to begging for coins. Metu, a 20 year old girl from the woreda, was pregnant while she fled the war. These days she goes around with her 3 months old infant on her back. “I gave birth after I arrived in Addis Abeba,” she said.\xa0'], ['Those who didn’t make it to the capital like Silas and Metu, are sheltered in in Sekota, Weleh and Zikuwala woredas. In the latest announcement on 31 March, the Wag Hemra zone communication bureau announced that the number of IDPS has surpassed 65,000. A total of 16,376 people are sheltered in informal IDP centers\xa0 while 49,381 people are hosted by the community, the statement said, adding, “Majority of the IDPs are from Tsagebj woreda making up 20,000 of the total number.”\xa0'], ['The Wag Hmera zone communications facebook page quoted the head of the zonal Disaster Prevention and Food Security bureau, Desta Getahun as saying, “An average of 2000 IDPs arrive from\xa0 Abergele, Tsagebj, Zata, Korem and Alamata, Zukuala and Seqota surrounding woredas daily.”'], ['Isayas Moges, PR head of the Sekota Zuria Woreda Prosperity Party office, said “Some woredas out of the eight woredas in the Wag Hmera zone are still under Tigrayan forces. In an interview with Addis Standard earlier in march, the local official said, “Especially\xa0 Abergele and Tsagebj are fully under their control. Three kebeles of Sekota zuria woreda and four kebeles of Zuquala woredas are also under the control of the Tigrayan armed forces. There is no active war but the Ethiopian defense force and the Amhara regional forces have not reclaimed those areas.”\xa0\xa0'], ['The Amhara region disaster prevention and food security facilitation commission stated that more than 11.6 million people in the region need daily food assistance. Iyasu Mesfin, the head of public relations of the commission, discussed with Addis Standard, the various reasons that led to people being displaced and in need of humanitarian aid, conflict being the primary cause.\xa0'], ['Iyasu said that over 900,000 fled conflict in the Oromia and Benishangul Gumuz regions, and 1.4 million people were displaced by the conflict with Tigrayan forces while the remaining 9.3 million internally displaced people are from areas affected by the war. According to the PR head, IDPs from Oromia and Benishangul Gumz regions are sheltered in West Gojjam, North Showa, South Wello, and Wag Hmera zones of the region.\xa0 Earlier in March, \xa0the region’s disaster prevention and food security facilitation commission stated that the IDPs need at least 1.2 million quintals of grain per month.\xa0'], ['Iyasu further stated that although the lack of transportation is preventing the commission from covering larger areas, aid is coming in from the federal and regional governments, regional non-government organizations, and the community.\xa0\xa0'], ['Similarly, a report by the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) revealed that hundreds of thousands of people were displaced mainly from Tigray and bordering areas as well as from Oromia regions due to conflict and violence. The majority of IDPs were displaced from Raya Alamata, Ofla, Zata, Korem, and Raya Azebo woredas of Southern Zone, Tigray Region, the report said.\xa0'], ['Isayas, PR head of the Sekota Zuria Woreda Prosperity Party office said that the regional government was making the larger part of the donation, underlining that the issue is beyond the zonal administration’s capacity. He underlined the lack of health care services that plagues the IDP shelters. Corroborating his statements, another local official said, “A town of 49,000 population is hosting more than 170,000 IDPs,” Tamiru Yemeraw, the head of the health bureau in Sekota said, adding, “The likelihood of an outbreak is worrying.”\xa0'], ['He continued, “ We opened two mobile clinics with the medical equipment we had. We host 60-150 patients daily.” Tamiru shed a light on the need for health services provision in the IDP shelters.\xa0 According to Tamiru, the health bureau is working on the prevention of communicable diseases due to the pervasiveness of such diseases in informal shelters.\xa0 Lack of proper hygiene leaves people vulnerable, he said.'], ['“Scabies was detected in IDPs who came from Abergele woreda,” he said, and added in a relief, “We were able to contain it before it spread.”\xa0 The shelters lack water, food, and bathrooms, he explained. The biggest problem is the lack of proper bathrooms, Tamiru said and expressed his fear of a crisis in case an outbreak occurs. He called for the government to pay due attention to the increasing number of IDPs.\xa0'], ['The problem doesn’t stop there. In a recent interview with VOA Amharic, the administrator of Abergele woreda, Alemu Kifle\xa0 stated that the death toll from shortage of food and medicine has reached 120. Children and the elderly constitute majority of the deaths, according to him,\xa0 Adults with medical conditions including HIV and hypertension died due to lack of medication whereas children died due to malaria.\xa0'], ['The zonal communications official, Kefyalew Debash, who spoke to BBC Amharic , stresses that unless the children impacted by food shortages are afforded immediate aid, a worrying situation seems to be imminent. ‘’ The noses and mouths of the children are bruised, this can spread like a communicable disease and present a scenario even worse than the 1977 E.C. famine. The outcomes of diseases affecting children without access to food is quite obvious‘’, he said.\xa0'], ['The official noted that the presence of Tigrayan forces in several areas, coupled with the drought that affected most woredas in the lowlands, has displaced over 61, 600 people. He recalled that prior to the onset of the war, 151,000 people depended on food security programs.\xa0'], ['The lack of necessary social services in needed quantities stands as the biggest problem of the woreda according to the official. Kefyalew states, Abergele, Tsegabeji and Zequala woreda\xa0 and 6 other kebeles still remain under the control of Tigrayan forces. Furthermore, he emphasized that returning the displaced from these areas will be ‘’ lasting solution’’ to the IDP crisis. AS\xa0']]}, {'Date': 'April 7, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Muslims decry restrictions by schools during Ramadan, City’s education bureau responds education should be free from religious activities', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – Muslim students in schools in Addis Abeba city are expressing dismay and frustrations after many schools prevented prayers and other activities following the onset of the holy month of Ramadan as of last week. Meanwhile, in a meeting held between officials of Addis Abeba City Education Bureau and secondary schools principals, the City’s education bureau said that education should be free from religious activities.'], ['After several reports emerged this week showing that many schools were preventing Muslim students both from observing prayer practices in the ongoing holy month of Ramadan and in some instances, keeping the students out of classes as a response. Prominent Muslim scholar, Ustaz Abubeker Ahmed, commented that “the question of who and what were behind the campaign to keep students out of school due to the prayers that started during the holy month of Ramadan in many schools has become a question for many of us.”'], ['Ustaz Abubeker further said that behind the scenes of instability in Ethiopia, ordinary people were compelled to analyze the reasons behind these challenges. “Behind the scenes, the question of “What is intended?” is becoming everyday question”, he said, adding that such relationship between the people and the government cannot be characterized as “good.”'], ['Addis Abeba City Education Bureau reported yesterday that during a discussion between the city’s education bureau officials and school principals held on 06 April, it was highlighted that the issue of activities in some schools under the guise of religion were observed and that it was contrary to and in violation of the rules governing students. It was also raised in the discussion that some students tend to engage in religious activities on campus and political agenda were being brought to schools from, pushing students into unnecessary situations.'], [' “this shows that there is a misguided leadership that is pushing away religious freedom, misinterprets our country’s laws and secularism principles, and disregards timing and circumstances.” '], ['Zelalem Mulatu, head of the Addis Abeba Education Bureau, is quoted by the bureau as saying that despite the fact that education is free from religious activities, activities were observed in some high schools in violation of this internationally accepted law. He also cautioned the principals to fulfill their responsibilities by ensuring that students from all schools do not leave school compounds during school hours. The Bureau also said that it has “agreed with the principals that education should be free of any religious activity.” '], ['Responding to the discussion and the news thereafter, Ustaz Abubeker expressed his concerns that what appeared to be unrelated campaign to distract Muslim students from performing their prayers, fasting and attending theirs schools seems to have taken a “form of an administrative campaign”. “We read in the evening that the Addis Abeba City Government Education Bureau has issued a statement,” he said, “this shows that there is a misguided leadership that is pushing away religious freedom, misinterprets our country’s laws and secularism principles, and disregards timing and circumstances.”'], ['He urged Muslim students, parents, and other stakeholders to take the initiative to find a lasting solution and called for an end to the pressure on students’ religious freedom. “I call on all parties to be guided by calmness and reason,” he said.'], ['According to Addis Abeba City Education Bureau, schools will discuss the issue with students’ parents in the coming weekend. AS']]}, {'Date': 'April 6, 2022', 'Header': 'Analysis: New report by rights groups documents war crimes and crimes against humanity in Western Tigray zone', 'news_paragraphs': [['Amhara regional security forces and civilian authorities in Ethiopia’s Western Tigray Zone have committed widespread abuses against Tigrayans since November 2020 that amount to war crimes and crimes against humanity, Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch said in a new report released today (6 April). Ethiopian authorities have severely restricted access and independent scrutiny of the region, keeping the government’s campaign of ethnic cleansing largely hidden. '], ['The report, ‘We Will Erase You From This Land’: Crimes Against Humanity and Ethnic Cleansing in Ethiopia’s Western Tigray Zone, documents how newly-appointed officials in Western Tigray and security forces from the neighboring Amhara region, with the acquiescence and possible participation of Ethiopian federal forces, systematically expelled several hundred thousand Tigrayan civilians from their homes using threats, unlawful killings, sexual violence, mass arbitrary detention, pillage, forcible transfer, and the denial of humanitarian assistance. These widespread and systematic attacks against the Tigrayan civilian population amount to crimes against humanity, as well as war crimes.'], ['“Since November 2020, Amhara officials and security forces have engaged in a relentless campaign of ethnic cleansing to force Tigrayans in Western Tigray from their homes,” said Kenneth Roth, Executive Director of Human Rights Watch. “Ethiopian authorities have steadfastly denied the shocking breadth of the crimes that have unfolded and have egregiously failed to address them.”'], ['The Ethiopian government should ensure immediate and sustained access to the region for humanitarian agencies, release all those arbitrarily detained, and investigate and appropriately prosecute those responsible for abuses. Any consensual agreement reached by the parties to the armed conflict should include the deployment of an AU-led international peacekeeping force to the Western Tigray Zone to ensure the protection of all communities from abuses.'], ['“The response of Ethiopia’s international and regional partners has failed to reflect the gravity of the crimes that continue to unfold in Western Tigray,” said Agnès Callamard, Secretary General of Amnesty International. “Concerned governments need to help bring an end to the ethnic cleansing campaign, ensure that Tigrayans are able to safely and voluntarily return home, and make a concerted effort to obtain justice for these heinous crimes.”'], ['Western Tigray Zone is a fertile administrative area in Ethiopia’s Tigray region. Claims over Western Tigray have been the source of heightened boundary and identity disputes since 1992. Western Tigray came under the control of the Ethiopian National Defense Forces (ENDF) and allied forces and militias from the Amhara region within two weeks of the outbreak of conflict in Tigray in November 2020.'], ['During the initial offensives, Ethiopian federal and allied forces carried out war crimes against Tigrayan communities, including indiscriminate shelling of towns and extrajudicial executions, forcing tens of thousands to flee to neighboring Sudan and to other parts of Tigray. Tigrayan militias and local residents also carried out war crimes against Amhara residents and visiting laborers during a massacre in Mai Kadra town on November 9, the first publicly reported large-scale massacre of this conflict.'], ['In the ensuing months, newly-appointed administrators in Western Tigray and Amhara Special Forces – a regional paramilitary force – undertook a campaign of ethnic cleansing against Tigrayan residents of the area.'], ['Over 15 months, Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch researchers interviewed more than 400 people, including in-person interviews of Tigrayan refugees in Sudan, and remote interviews of Tigrayan and Amhara residents of Western Tigray and the Amhara region who suffered or witnessed abuses. Researchers also consulted medical and forensic reports, court documents, satellite imagery, and photographic and video evidence that corroborated accounts of grave abuses.'], ['Amhara regional security forces, militias, and newly appointed authorities carried out a coordinated campaign of ethnically targeted persecution beginning in late 2020.'], ['In several towns across Western Tigray, signs were displayed ordering Tigrayans to leave, and local administrators discussed their plans to remove Tigrayans in open meetings. A Tigrayan woman from Baeker town described threats she faced by Fanos, an irregular Amhara militia: “They kept saying every night, ‘We will kill you… Go out of the area’.” Pamphlets appeared giving Tigrayans 24-hour or 72-hour ultimatums to leave or be killed.'], ['The authorities rounded up thousands of Tigrayans for long-term detention and abuse in overcrowded facilities. Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch believe thousands of Tigrayans are still held in life-threatening conditions today.'], ['Security forces also used gang rape, accompanied by verbal and physical abuse, abduction, and sexual slavery. A 27-year-old Tigrayan woman said that a militia member told her as the men raped her: “You Tigrayans should disappear from the land west of [the Tekeze River]. You are evil and we are purifying your blood.”'], ['Authorities in Western Tigray also imposed restrictions on movement, humanitarian assistance, speaking the Tigrinya language, and access to farmland to coerce Tigrayans to leave. Amhara security forces, and in some places Eritrean forces present in Western Tigray, looted crops, livestock, and equipment, depriving Tigrayans of their means of survival. A 63-year-old farmer from Division village watched as a group of men destroyed his home. One of the men told him: “This is not your land. You have nothing to claim here.”'], ['Many Tigrayan communities, facing starvation and intimidation, felt they had no choice but to leave. In other instances, local authorities provided trucks or buses to expel tens of thousands of Tigrayans, sending them east, toward central Tigray.'], ['This coordinated campaign continued for months. Tens of thousands of Tigrayans had fled or been expelled by March 2021. Abuses and expulsions escalated again in November 2021, when tens of thousands of older and sick Tigrayans, young mothers, and children were expelled, while Amhara forces arrested and detained thousands of adult men, shooting at those who tried to flee.'], ['On January 17 2021, Amhara militias known as Fanos and local residents rounded up and detained dozens of male Tigrayan residents of the town of Adi Goshu.'], ['Members of the Amhara Special Forces rounded up and summarily executed about 60 Tigrayan men by the Tekeze River. Witnesses and the few men who survived believed the killings were a revenge attack after the Amhara forces suffered heavy losses during fighting with Tigrayan forces the previous night.'], ['“When they shot at us, I fell first and then I saw also when the others in front of me were shot and fell,” said a 74-year-old survivor. “And the people behind me fell on me and covered me… After that, they said, ‘The Tigrayans don’t die easily, shoot again’.”'], ['The massacre prompted a mass exodus of Tigrayans from Adi Goshu.'], ['Former detainees held in sites across Tigray said many people died in detention sites run by the Amhara forces and Fano militias. Some died as a result of torture, denial of medical care, and lack of food and water; guards killed others. A 72-year-old farmer said: “They [Amhara militia guards] kept telling us that Tigrayans deserve to be starved…to death.”'], ['Both Ethiopian federal forces and Amhara authorities have denied allegations of ethnic cleansing in Western Tigray. On February 25, Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch wrote to Ethiopian federal and Amhara and Tigrayan regional authorities concerning the organizations’ findings. At time of writing, only the Amhara regional government had responded.'], ['In armed conflict, all parties are obligated to respect international humanitarian law – the laws of war. Amhara regional forces and forces aligned with the Ethiopian government in the Western Tigray Zone committed the war crimes of murder, torture, rape, deportation and forcible transfer, and enforced disappearance. Such violations committed as part of a widespread or systematic attack on a civilian population in furtherance of a state or organizational policy constitute crimes against humanity.'], ['The Ethiopian federal government and its international and regional partners should take concrete steps to protect all communities in Western Tigray, including by immediately releasing Tigrayans arbitrarily detained there, and allowing protection monitoring. On March 24, the government announced a humanitarian truce. Regardless of any truce or ceasefire, Ethiopia’s federal and regional authorities should allow unhindered, independent, and sustained humanitarian assistance.'], ['The government should also demobilize and disarm all abusive militia forces in Western Tigray, and vet Amhara Special Forces and Ethiopian federal forces and remove those implicated in serious abuses, Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch said. Civilian officials, including interim authorities in Western Tigray, and security force personnel implicated in serious abuses should be suspended pending investigations.'], ['Any consensual agreement by all parties should include the urgent deployment of an AU-led international peacekeeping force with a robust civilian protection mandate to Western Tigray. This is crucial to promote human rights, allow the delivery of humanitarian aid, and to help protect at-risk communities in Tigray. Ethiopia’s international and regional partners should support these calls. Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International ']]}]
[{'Date': 'April 1, 2022', 'Header': '#ASDailyScoop: Tigray sees eight fold increase in pervasiveness of scabies: UN', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba: The latest Humanitarian update from the UNOCHA revealed “the pervasiveness of scabies continues to be a major concern in Tigray, with cases increasing eight-fold [from] 384 cases identified at the start of the year to more than 3,100 identified cases during the reporting week.”  '], ['Most cases are recorded among internally displaced people (IDPs) at displacement sites. Despite ongoing efforts to respond to the increased scabies cases, the situation remains challenging, hindered by compounding issues such as overcrowding and poor living conditions, and lack of effective medications. So far, health partners have been responding to the situation mostly at IDP sites in Mekelle, Adwa and Shire, through awareness raising campaigns. Partners used expired Permetrin ointment as a remedy alongside other inefficient treatments as no alternative drug supplies are available. While sufficient healthcare response is essential to end the outbreak, scaling up of water, sanitation, and hygiene (WASH), healthcare services and improved living conditions at IDP sites, as well as strengthening medication delivery to Tigray are key to contain this issue in a more durable manner.'], ['In Afar – Humanitarian partners reached more than 62,000 people with food assistance in Afar and more than 7,700 people with medical consultations during the reporting week. Needs assessment visit conducted in Afdera and Silsa Guyha IDP sites, where there are currently six sites managed by humanitarian partners in the two woredas, with a total of more than 34,000 people. While limited shelters and non-food items (NFIs) provided to the IDPs, a huge gap persist with provision of food, shelter, drinking water, sanitation and hygiene services, education service, primary health care, and NFIs, including dignity kits for women and girls, are urgently required.'], ['In Amhara – Humanitarian partners reached more than 726,000 people with food assistance in Amhara during the reporting period. However, the situation along areas bordering Tigray, namely in Wag Hamra, North Wello and North Gondar zones, remains volatile. Several locations remain hard to reach for partners’ operations,\xa0including Abergele, Tsagibji kebeles as well as well as\xa0some parts of Zequala kebeles\xa0in Wag Hamra Zone, large parts of Kobo in North Wello Zone, and in Addi Arekay in North Gondar Zone.\xa0']]}, {'Date': 'March 31, 2022', 'Header': 'News: UN migration body says some $11 m needed to assist over 100,000 Ethiopian nationals returning from Saudi Arabia', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – Following an agreement between the Governments of Ethiopia and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA), over 100,000 Ethiopian migrants are expected to be deported to Ethiopia from KSA, with the arrivals starting on 30 March 2022, UN’s International Organization for Migration (IOM) said.  '], ['On 30 March about 900 migrants arrived at the Bole International Airport in Addis Abeba. “The returnees, including mothers with young children, were assisted and registered by International Organization for Migration\xa0(IOM) staff and offered, among others, food, temporary accommodation, medical help and counseling services,” IOM said. '], ['The returnees will receive humanitarian assistance and protection services upon arrival from the Government authorities, IOM\xa0and other partners. However, meeting the needs of the 100,000 returnees is going to be an enormous challenge for the government, IOM, and partners.\xa0'], [' “It is estimated that about 750,000 Ethiopians currently reside in the Kingdom with about 450,000 likely to have traveled to the country through irregular means and will need help to return home” '], ['“Roughly USD 11 million will be needed to assist the over 100,000 Ethiopian migrants from KSA through post-arrival assistance. The Government of Ethiopia is appealing to donors, UN agencies, and other humanitarian actors for generous support. It is estimated that about 750,000 Ethiopians currently reside in the Kingdom with about 450,000 likely to have traveled to the country through irregular means and will need help to return home. Over the last four years KSA has returned nearly 352,000 Ethiopians back home,” the organization said. '], ['Previous movements of Ethiopians returning from KSA have included people exhibiting varied needs, risks, and vulnerabilities such as pregnant and lactating women, the elderly, and persons with medical conditions including mental health disorders.'], ['IOM further said was is working closely with the Government of Ethiopia and its partners as the country continues to receive thousands of returnees from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. A coordinated multi-sectoral response is critical to ensure returnees receive essential services such as medical care, food, shelter, and psychosocial support as well as specialized protection services to alleviate their immediate needs, risks and vulnerabilities and enable their return home in safety and dignity.'], ['The Government of Ethiopia will continue to strive toward strengthening repatriation and rehabilitation program and ensuring the orderly return of its citizens abroad. The involvement of key partners in the planning and operationalization of this goal is essential, emphasized an official of the Consular Affairs Directorate General at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ethiopia.'], ['IOM’s humanitarian assistance and protection services in response to the needs of the returnees are aligned with the Regional Migrant Response Plan for the Horn of Africa and Yemen, 2022. The MRP aims to address the needs of migrants in vulnerable situations and host communities in countries situated along the Eastern Migratory Route, located between the Horn of Africa and Yemen, with the generous financial support of the US\xa0State Department’s Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration; Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency; and the European Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid Operations. ']]}, {'Date': 'March 30, 2022', 'Header': '#ASDailyScoop: First round of Ethiopian nationals arrive in Addis Abeba today from Riyadh', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – A total of 498 – 157 children and 341 women – were flown out of Riyadh this morning as the first part of flight to repatriate Ethiopian nationals trapped in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.'], ['The returnees arrives at Bole International Airport in Addis Abeba where they were welcomed by Minister of Labor and Social Affairs Dr. Ergoge Tesfaye, State Minister for Foreign Affairs Birtukan Ayano and other senior government officials.'], ['The Ministry of Labor and Social affairs said yesterday that temporary accommodation places were set up for returnees.'], ['On March 28 the Ministry Foreign Affairs said that a committee was established to oversee the repatriation and rehabilitation of Ethiopian nationals from Saudi Arabia. “The committee, comprising 16 institutions, revealed that about 100 thousand Ethiopians would be repatriated within the upcoming 7-11 months,” MoFA said.']]}, {'Date': 'March 29, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Tigray state says no humanitarian aid after unilateral truce; Gov’t disputes account, blames Tigrayan forces', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – In a statement released on 28 March, Tigrayan authorities said despite humanitarian truce over the past four days, “no humanitarian aid has arrived in Tigray,” and blamed Ethiopian authorities of continuing “to saturate the airwaves with the false claim that humanitarian aid was flowing into Tigray on a daily basis.” '], ['On March 24 both the federal government issued a statement announcing a unilateral “humanitarian truce.” Tigrayan authorities issues another statement on the same day that the regional government of Tigray was “committed to implementing a cessation of hostilities effective immediately if the people of Tigray receive humanitarian aid equivalent to their needs within a reasonable time frame.” '], ['#Update: Federal government declares humanitarian truce in #Tigray effective today; says move paves way for resolution of conflict https://t.co/rBqwTlbNOT The statement concluded by calling on Tigrayan forces to withdraw from areas they have occupied in neighboring regions…'], ['“All relevant stakeholders should note that such fictitious narratives are designed to befuddle people in and outside the country, but the principal target is the international community. Furthermore, the delivery of humanitarian aid without any obstruction must be decoupled from political issues,” the statement said. '], [' “pharmaceuticals, medical equipment, money, and nutritional supplements began to be transported by air as much as possible.” '], ['The Ethiopian government responded this afternoon saying that “it has taken a variety of actions”, including “allowing a full week of air transportation to several international humanitarian organizations was one of the initiatives. Accordingly, pharmaceuticals, medical equipment, money, and nutritional supplements began to be transported by air as much as possible. In addition, the government has also permitted other humanitarian aid to be transported by air. In this regard, the government has taken immediate action, unless there is a lack of capacity or a delay in the operation of the charities.” '], ['On 17 March, the Ethiopian Ministry of Foreign Affairs said that 20 trucks loaded with food items and three trucks carrying fuel tankers “have started moving” from Semera, Afar, to Mekelle. However, the trucks never made it to Tigray and although the government blamed Tigrayan forces for it, last week, U.S. Special Envoy for the Horn of Africa David Satterfield told Reuters that attempts to move assistance to affected communities in Ethiopia’s Afar region, which neighbors Tigray, were blocked by “local elements out of the deep resentment, distrust of intentions on the part of everyone.”'], ['“A convoy carrying food for displaced people in the Afar region was stopped by local communities in Afar over the weekend,” Reuters quoted a spokeswoman for the U.N.’s World Food Program as saying.“The convoy returned safely to Semera. WFP continues to work with federal and regional authorities as well as local communities to ensure our convoys with food assistance reach all those in need across Northern Ethiopia.”'], ['Today’s statement by the federal government said that after it declared “a truce for the humanitarian needs” of the people inTigray region “pharmaceuticals, medical equipment, money, and nutritional supplements began to be transported by air as much as possible.” Furthermore, the government says it has “permitted other humanitarian aid to be transported by air. In this regard, the government has taken immediate action, unless there is a lack of capacity or a delay in the operation of the charities.” '], [' “The Government of Tigray also calls on the international community to demand an end to word games, and, in accordance with the understanding reached, bring sufficient pressure to bear on the regime…” '], ['“The Ethiopian government has been using all available means to rescue its citizens in the Tigray region but has not been able to secure the cooperation of the other party. The 43-truck food aid authorized to the World Food Program (WFP) had not been transported to the Tigray region due to the closure of Abala Road by TPLF militants,” the statement said, and called on the international community “to put pressure on the Tigray militants to withdraw from the Afar and Amhara districts, where they are being held hostage, and to comply with their commitments to ceasefire.” '], ['Last night’s statement from Tigray state said that the regional government has “made it clear that it would continue to extend all necessary cooperation to create favorable conditions to make sure that our people would receive the level of humanitarian aid commensurate with the considerable scale of needs on the ground, and within a reasonable timeframe.” '], ['It cautioned for the provision of sufficient humanitarian assistance “without any delay” and an end to the “mendacious claims regarding the delivery of humanitarian aid into Tigray.” '], ['“The Government of Tigray also calls on the international community to demand an end to word games, and, in accordance with the understanding reached, bring sufficient pressure to bear on the regime to allow unfettered humanitarian access to Tigray,” the statement said.'], ['So far there has not been a statement from the U.N. humanitarian partners on the issue. AS']]}, {'Date': 'March 29, 2022', 'Header': 'Updated #ASDailyScoop: Benishagul Gumuz State Council approves renaming of Berta nation to Benishangul, split Assosa into two Woredas', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – In a meeting it held today, the Benishangul Gumuz Regional State Council has unanimously approved the renaming of Berta nation to Benishangul nation.'], ['According to the regional state’s communication bureau,the decision to rename the formerly Berta name to Benishangul was passed at the 13th regular session of the 5th year, 7th term of the council’s meeting, which is happening today. '], ['The Berta is a small community group that reside mainly in the 7 Woredas of Assosa Zone of the Benishangul Gumuz regional state. More than 96.3% of the population is Muslim and about 95% depend on subsistence farming, according to a 2009 survey. The Berta community are known for their unique cultural music called Zumbara (see video below).  '], ['The Council’s decision today followed an earlier decision by the lower Council of the Berta people which took place in Kurmuk wereda which approved the renaming of Berta to Benishangul based on the history of the nation. '], ['In Addition to the renaming, the council has also discussed and approved the performance report of the regional state’s first half of the 2021-2022 fiscal year. '], ['Before it concluded its 13th regular session, the meeting by the Benishangul Gumuz Regional State Council unanimously approved a proposed amendment to split the Assosa Woreda into two woredas. Accordingly, Assosa woreda is now renamed “Ura Woreda” and “Abrahamo Woreda”, the Council also discussed and approved a proclamation to re-establish the Benishagul Gumuz Regional Militia Office.'], ['According to the regional state communication bureau, the newly reorganized Ura and Abrahamo Woredas will each have 41 kebeles and are organized in lone with public services provision. The decision was taken based on a proposed amendment to strengthen and decentralize the Assosa Woreda administration in the regional state, the bureau said. AS']]}]
[{'Date': 'March 17, 2022', 'Header': '#ASDialyScoop: Ethiopian media Authority, Gov’t Communication Service holding annual conference under the theme ‘True Information for Multinational Unity’', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – The Ethiopian Media Authority, in collaboration with the Government Communication Service, is holding an annual Media and Communication Conference under the theme “True Information for Multinational Unity.”'], ['According to EMA, the purpose of the conference is to assess and discuss the contribution the media had on the existing circumstances in the country and to reach at a common understanding that will enable the media and communication sector to move the country towards better peace, unity and development.'], ['The conference started with a welcome speech from EMA Director General, Mohammed Idris, and Minister for Communication Service, Dr. Legesse Tulu.'], ['In his opening speech EMA DG Mohammed said that the conference was a forum to discuss the strengths and weaknesses of the media and communication sector in Ethiopia and its roles to strengthen the contribution of the media to the building of peace, development and democracy in the country.'], ['Dr. Legesse on his part said that the media and communication sector in the country needs to work together to build the image of the country and strengthen Ethiopia’s multinational unity by providing integrated and coordinated information. '], ['In his opening remarks, Tagesse Chafo, Speaker of the House People’s Representatives (HoPR) thanked the media for their role in the overall development of our country, especially for their significant contribution to the country’s survival campaign.'], ['Tagesse called on the media to play their role in nation building, national unity and the prevention of false information and hate speech.'], ['Furthermore, he underlined that much as the media contributes to this end, false information and hate speech spread by irresponsible media outlets can have a devastating effect on the public and national security. Accordingly the media, civic associations, government and non-governmental organizations and the people of Ethiopia should work together more than ever. AS']]}, {'Date': 'March 16, 2022', 'Header': 'News: 95 metric tons of medical supplies ready for Tigray, but no permission given yet: WHO', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – Dr. Tedros Adhanom, Directo General of the World Health Organization (WHO) told the press this afternoon that the WHO and its patrners have readied additional 95 metric tons of supplies to the war-torn, blockaded Tigray “but no permission has been given yet.” '], ['Dr. Tedros said that six million people in Tigray, where about three-quarters of health facilities assessed by WHO have been damaged or destroyed, “have been under blockade by Ethiopian and Eritrean forces for almost 500 days, sealed off from the outside world.” There is nowhere on earth where the health of millions of people is more under threat than in Tigray, the Director General of the World’s health body said. '], [' “The blockade on communications, including on journalists being able to report from Tigray, means it remains a forgotten crisis – out of sight, and out of mind.”  '], ['In February, WHO and partners were able to airlift more than 33 metric tonnes of medicines and other supplies to Tigray, “enough for 300 thousand people”,  and the first time WHO and partners have been able to deliver supplies since July last year, he said. In the past two weeks, WHO and our partners have distributed supplies to 65 health facilities in Tigray, “but much more is needed.”  '], ['WHO estimates that 2,200 metric tons of emergency health supplies are needed to respond to urgent health needs in Tigray. “Only 117 metric tons have been delivered – less than 1% of what is needed,” he said. '], [' “Household food consumption has reportedly drastically decreased, prompting an increase in malnutrition rates among children and pregnant and lactating women” '], ['“People are dying” due to the impact of all this across other medical cases in Tigray, according to Dr. Tedros. “There is no treatment for 46,000 people who need treatment for HIV, and the program has been abandoned. People with tuberculosis, hypertension, diabetes and cancer are also not being treated, and may have died.”'], ['Further compounding the crisis is the blockade on communications, including on journalists to be able to report from Tigray, “means it remains a forgotten crisis – out of sight, and out of mind.” '], ['“Yes, I am from Tigray, and this crisis affects me, my family & my friends very personally. But as the Director-General of WHO, I have a duty to protect & promote health wherever it is under threat.”'], ['The as it continues to call on Russia to make peace in Ukraine, WHO calls on Ethiopia and Eritrea “to end the blockade – the siege – and allow safe access for humanitarian supplies and workers to save lives.” '], ['Dr. Tedros’ remarks came in the heels of the latest report by the UNOHCA despite the airlifting of medical and nutrition supplies since January, access to health remains minimal, particularly in rural areas where lack of fuel has impacted the distribution of medicines. '], ['#Tigray:Despite the airlifting of medical & nutrition supplies since Jan, access to health remains minimal, particularly in rural areas where lack of fuel has impacted the distribution of medicines.Lack of fuel &commercial supply has prompted a sharp increase of commodity prices pic.twitter.com/SeKVE9BGej'], ['Lack of fuel and commercial supply has prompted a sharp increase of commodity prices, (flour and beans by 414 per cent and 620 per cent), according to the UN. “Household food consumption has reportedly drastically decreased, prompting an increase in malnutrition rates among children and pregnant and lactating women.”'], [' The limited availability of fuel has constrained the humanitarian response to critical levels. Partners are using animals to transport supplies and walk long distances to deliver nutrition services. Relief stocks are depleted, and lack of fuel has forced partners to halt or significantly reduce operations, leaving millions unassisted, UNOCHA further cautioned. '], ['“There is almost no fuel, no cash & no communications. No food aid has been delivered since the middle of December. 83% of the population is food insecure. Our partners are running out of what little food they have & the fuel to transport it,” Dr. Tedros told the media. “The blockade on communications, including on journalists being able to report from Tigray, means it remains a forgotten crisis – out of sight, and out of mind.” '], ['He also cautioned that the humanitarian situation in the Afar regional state also continues to deteriorate, “with tens of thousands of people displaced and in need of food, shelter and health services. “But while the neighboring regions of Afar and Amhara are also affected, we have had far better access to those two regions than we have in Tigray.” '], [' “Thousands of people are reported to be trapped within conflict areas, without any assistance as access is not possible due to insecurity.”  '], ['The UNOCHA said that heavy fighting in February in Abala, Dalol, Konneba and Berahle, Megale and Afdera woredas, in Afar regional state displaced hundreds of thousands. “In Afdera, thousands of IDPs sheltered in various sites, without any water and sanitation facilities or access to services. Thousands of people are reported to be trapped within conflict areas, without any assistance as access is not possible due to insecurity.” '], [' “In North Gondar, sporadic hostilities were reported in Addi Arkay woreda. Partners have been unable to mobilize any aid through Gondar – May Tsebri – Shire since June.”'], ['whereas in Amhara region, Eastern Amhara is among the most heavily affected areas due to the spillover of armed clashes from Tigray in 2021. In North and South Wollo zones, partners scaled-up the response to assist hundreds of thousands of IDP returnees. Access to some kebeles bordering southern Tigray in Raya Alamata woreda, especially in Raya Kobo, remained limited due to sporadic clashes. Most of Wag Hamra became accessible, including Lalibela and Sekota towns, while Abergele and Tsagbeji woredas remain hard to reach. In North Gondar, sporadic hostilities were reported in Addi Arkay woreda. Partners have been unable to mobilize any aid through Gondar – May Tsebri – Shire since June. AS']]}, {'Date': 'March 15, 2022', 'Header': '#ASDailyScoop: Seven Eritrean relatives killed in car accident in Addis Abeba', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – Seven women who were relatives of an Eritrean family, including a passenger who was on her way to Bole International Airport to travel abroad, were killed in a car accident in Addis Abeba on Saturday 12 March, BBC Amharic reported.'], ['There were eleven people from the family in the same car driving from Gelan condominium to Bole Airpot to see off the family member who was accompanied by her four and six year old children, the Addis Abeba City Fire and Disaster Risk Management Commission said. The children survived the accident but are admitted to hospital and recovering from their injuries.'], ['The accident happened when the minibus carrying the 11 passengers collided head-on with a broken sinotruk that was parked on the road half way to Bole International Airport, killing the seven women instantly. Among the victims were the overseas traveler, her mother who came from Asmara, and other family members.'], ['According to Nigatu Mamo, public relations expert with the Fire and Disaster Risk Management Commission, it took first responder more than an hour and 20 minutes extract the bodies out of the badly damaged minibus.'], ['Negatu recalled several accidents happened in the past in the area, one police officer was killed before. The police are investigating the latest accident the exact cause. AS']]}, {'Date': 'March 15, 2022', 'Header': 'Featured: Displaced Tigrayan children taught to draw to tell the story of conflict and hope', 'news_paragraphs': [['Dheepa Pandian'], ['18-year-old Netshet Fisehe, is one of 2.1 million people who have been displaced due to the conflict in northern Ethiopia. She is staying in Sebacare Internally Displaced Camp (IDP) in the capital city of Mekelle, Tigray region where over 9,000 IDPs reside. She has been here for five months and despite the fact she has been separated from her family due to the fighting, she is a proud volunteer at the UNICEF supported Bete ‘My Home’ temporary learning center which provides integrated education and protection services.'], ['Netshet teaches children to draw to help them express their feelings about the conflict. She believes a picture can tell a thousand words. \xa0\xa0'], ['“I enjoy drawing as instead of expressing myself in words, I can express myself better in drawing,” she said. “It comes easier when you put words into a picture. I draw when I feel stressed, and it always makes me feel better.”'], ['She teaches children how to draw and also shows them her drawings and asks them what the drawing means to get younger children to share their feelings. She explains to the children that this drawing is of a mother who despite the fighting around her, she is determined to protect her baby. “I keep my drawings simple for the children so they can understand what they mean and then I encourage them to draw about their experiences,” she said.'], ['Netshet also has her own set of drawings which tell a story of sadness and strength. “This is the first drawing in a story,” she said. “She is a beautiful lady, and the flower shows her beauty, but society is undermining her. The wolf is dominating and very strong and is attacking her, exposing her to violence.”\xa0The second drawing (above) is the same woman who is full of shame because she has been raped.'], ['“This is the same lady (one drawing up), and you can see she is very small, and her dress is disorganized,” Netshet said with tears in her eyes. “This is all about her desperation and how she has lost all hope.”\xa0Netshet\xa0calls the final drawing (above) in this story ‘The Window of Hope’. “She has had counseling now and she has hope and feels there is a future for her,” she said with a smile on her face.']]}, {'Date': 'March 14, 2022', 'Header': '#ASDailyScoop: Weybo Irrigation project set to benefit more than 12, 000 farmers', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba –  The Ministry of Irrigation and Lowlands said that the ongoing Irrigation Development Project being built on the Weybo River in Wolayta Zone, Southern Nations, Nationalities and People’s Region (SNNPR) will benefit more than 12, 000 farmers in its environs. '], ['Upon completion,the 2.44 billion Birr worth Weybo Irrigation Development Project has the potential to develop 3,429 hectares of land, the Ministry said. The project was launched in November last year and is expected to be completed within two to three years. '], ['The project is being built in Wolayta Zone, Boloso Sore and Boloso Bombe Woredas and will directly and indirectly benefit farmers in four Kebeles in Boloso Sore Woreda and seven kebeles in Boloso Bombe Woreda. '], ['According to the Ministry, the Weybo Irrigation Development Project has 660 meters length and 32.7 meters height as well as a water area covering 640 hectares of land with a storage capacity of holding 60 million cubic meters. In addition to agriculture, the area will be developed for tourist attraction and fishing activities.'], ['The project is divided into two lots. The construction of the dam and related works will be done by Southern Water Works Construction Enterprise, whereas irrigation land preparation and construction works will be done by a joint venture between Cross Land Construction Private Limited Company and Oromia Construction Corporation, the Ministry further said.  The project is overseen by the Southern Design and Supervision Enterprise. AS'], ['']]}]
[{'Date': 'March 14, 2022', 'Header': 'News: German section of Amnesty International awards Ethiopian Human Rights Council with Human Rights Award 2022', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – The Ethiopian Human Rights Council (EHRCO) is to receive the Human Rights Award 2022 from the German section of Amnesty International. The  10,000 euros award will be conferred in recognition of EHRCO’s selfless human rights advocacy in Ethiopia, which it engages in at great personal risk. '], ['According to a statement issued in connection with the award, the independent EHRCO has been the voice of human rights in Ethiopia for over 30 years. Its employees investigate human rights abuses, provide legal advice to those affected and are involved in human rights education. Their advocacy is often associated with reprisals and personal risk. The outbreak of the armed conflict in 2020 in the north of the country, especially in the Tigray region, makes EHRCO’s human rights work indispensable.'], ['“EHRCO is the voice of the unheard in Ethiopia,” said Markus N. Beeko, Secretary General of Amnesty International in Germany. “For 30 years, EHRCO has been fighting for those affected by human rights abuses. For this, its supporters have been insulted, imprisoned, tortured and even killed. Nevertheless, EHRCO never allowed itself to be intimidated. Amnesty International recognizes this courage and advocacy in honoring EHRCO with the Amnesty Human Rights Award – the eleventh time the award will have been conferred.”'], ['“Receiving the award and working with international human rights organizations like Amnesty International is immensely important to us, as human rights are universal that need collaboration and solidarity for the betterment of Human Rights and Democracy” said Dan Yirga Haile, Executive Director of EHRCO.'], ['“We now know: If something should happen to us, others will raise their voices and stand up for us in solidarity. In Ethiopia, the government and politicians suppress many voices of the people in various ways. These voices are not getting the attention they deserve. Amnesty International’s Human Rights Award helps making these voices heard by honoring EHRCO’s relentless human rights efforts for thirty years now.”'], ['Since the beginning of the armed conflict in northern Ethiopia in November 2020, Amnesty International has witnessed gross human rights abuses committed by all parties to the conflict, including extrajudicial executions and sexual violence against women and girls. In Amnesty International’s assessment, these constitute violations of international humanitarian law, war crimes and, in some cases, possible crimes against humanity. Millions have been displaced within the country, and several million in Tigray and neighboring regions are being denied humanitarian aid. According to Amnesty, clashes between the armed groups have claimed at least 1,500 lives. Since early 2021, the police have been arbitrarily detaining Tigrayans and those caught up in the conflict.'], ['On the fourth anniversary of Abiy Ahmed prime ministership on 2 April 2022, Amnesty International is calling on the Ethiopian government to allow independent human rights organizations – such as EHRCO – access to the conflict region of Tigray; to protect journalists and human rights activists, and guarantee their freedom of expression and freedom of the press; to stop the arbitrary arrest of journalists and human rights defenders; and to release all those detained on political or ethnic grounds.'], ['Turning to Germany, Markus N. Beeko said: “The German government must take coherent and concrete steps to deliver on its commitment to a new foreign policy guided by human rights. The mainstay of cooperation with Ethiopia must be the German government’s support for civil society. In this key African partner country, civil society space has once again been massively restricted – the German government can and must support civil society and help protect human rights defenders.” Dispatch ']]}, {'Date': 'March 11, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Siinqee Institute requests UNESCO to condemn Karrayyu Abba Gadaas’ execution, facilitate space for healing and reconciliation', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – Siinqee Institute, a civic organization established by a network of individuals and small groups from across different social, cultural, political, spiritual and geographical boundaries, has requested the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), to condemn the extrajudicial killing on 01 December 2021 of 14 members of the  Karrayu’s Gadaa Michilee leaders. The institute also requested UNESCO to facilitate “a space for healing and reconciliation.”'], ['The UNESCO has inscribed the Gadda System, an indigenous egalitarian democratic system of the Oromo nation in Ethiopia, “developed from knowledge gained by community experience over generations” on its “Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity” in 2016. '], ['Calling the  extrajudicial killing by members of Oromia regional state special police “a heinous crime”  Siinqee Institute, which works with indigenous, transnational grassroots, and women’s groups, said that “with the purpose of moving beyond retributive justice in pursuit of Indigenous justice as healing and restorative, the Siinqee Institute has carried out its own truth seeking within the purview of Indigenous frameworks,” and called upon the UNESCO to give its study report “a careful consideration and assist us in our pursuit of justice for the massacred Karrayyu Gadaa leaders and their traumatized families and communities.” '], ['Siinqee Institute also requested the UNESCO to call upon relevant authorities and “facilitate the establishment of a truth and reconciliation process whereby the Karrayyu community find restorative justice and healing from historical trauma.” '], ['“Imagine this was the government of a western nation and ponder the impact of killing an entire government with all its cabinet ministers in just one cruel strike. That was what happened to the Karrayyu who are left leaderless and disenfranchised,” the letter reads. '], ['#Ethiopia : No sign of redress for Karrayyu Abba Gadaas executed by #Oromia police despite state minister, MP named culprits https://t.co/4FMa876QLH"They even asked us to give them our money before we die,” a survivor, who was later jailed alongside 22 others told @Siyaanne'], ['The Ethiopian Human Rights Commission (EHRC) said there was “reasonable ground to believe” that the killing of Gadaa leaders constitutes “extrajudicial killing” by security forces and urged that members of the security forces who committed the killings should be brought to justice and that the victims and families of the victims should be compensated.\xa0AS'], ['']]}, {'Date': 'March 10, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Twelve people die, hundreds affected by new cases of measles in Somali region; hundreds more affected in Oromia, SNNP regions: UN', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – The U.N. said measles cases continue to be reported since December 2021 in Doloado and Bokolmayo woredas of Liban Zone, in Somali Region, “with about 700 new cases and 12 deaths recorded as of 3 March.” '], [' The news comes at a time when Somali region is already struggling with severe drought that left “more than three million people significantly impacted by the drought, including about 2.4 million people in need of immediate water support, according to the U.N.  “Serious shortage of pasture and limited water availability for livestock continue to cause animal deaths, with more than 900,000 livestock (the main livelihood of thousands of people) reportedly perished in drought affected areas in the region to date.”  '], ['While the number of cases recorded has decreased since cases were diagnosed in December 2021, active cases remain. “Measles cases have been recorded in 15 kebeles, including five refugee camps in the zone,” the report said.  '], ['In response, the Regional Health Bureau and the World Health Organization are planning to carry out a measles vaccination campaign targeting children from six months to ten years of age in all woredas of Liban Zone and two neighboring woredas in Afder (Dolobay and Barey) by the second week of March. Active monitoring and surveillance are carried out in other locations in the region that have reported suspected cases. '], ['Similarly, the report said as of 25 February, new cases reported in other regions reached 104 cases in Abaya, Borena zone in Oromia region, and 125 cases in Garda Marta, Gamo Zone in Southern Nations, Nationalities and People’s (SNNP) region. '], ['#Ethiopia: Thread on #Measles & #Cholera outbreak in #Oromia regional stateMeasles & Cholera outbreak in six zones in Oromia have killed at least 30 people & affected thousands in the last two weeks only, @VOAAfaanOromoo quoted #Oromia Health Bureau https://t.co/zhH7aNDBsT'], ['In February 2020, measles outbreak that affected more than 12, 000 people were reported in 36 zones of 5 different regions in a span of 13 months beginning January 2019. “Oromia region bore the brunt of the outbreaks, with 67 per cent of cases, followed by Somali with 21 per cent,” U.N.’s report said at the time. At least five people died of the outbreak in east Wellega zone alone, whereas at least 30 people died in March of the same year in other parts of Oromia region. '], ['Last week, residents of Guji, West Guji and Borana zones of Oromia regional state told Addis Standard that diarrhea outbreak was ravaging many households in several areas. However, local and regional health officials denied the scale was an outbreak, but admitted there was shortage of water purifying chemicals and medicines to filter the water were being delivered by water trucks, which is contributing to increased number of diarrhea cases but it has not reached the level an outbreak. AS '], ['']]}, {'Date': 'March 9, 2022', 'Header': 'Analysis: As rising prices, inflation grip Ethiopia, government to open up retail sector to foreign companies', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – In a major policy change, State Minister of Finance Dr. Eyob Tekalign (PhD), said that like the telecom sector, the government will open up retail sector to foreign companies.'], ['His announcement came as inflation is causing price hikes in multiple sectors of the retail market in Ethiopia. Although inflation has decreased to 33.60 % in the month of February, down from 34.50 % in January this year, the prices of basic commodities continued to go through the roof, creating shock waves among consumers.  '], ['The government needs to consider alternative ways to increase citizens’ income by creating general economic growth, Dr. Eyob said. In the meantime, he expects the government to come up with a different solutions to control rising inflation.'], ['According to the State Minister, the price of commodities in the world market is rising sharply. One of the main reasons for the current inflation is that the price of imported goods fell directly on consumers. The monetary policy that the government is using to cover its expenses is also creating pressure of its own, he said, adding that if the government can’t fix these over time, things will get worse.'], [' “There is no one within the government that says the reform we have started in foreign exchange sector is not harmful” '], ['The state minister expressed hope that because the government has chosen peace, the domestic security situation is expected to improve soon, and that will in return stabilize the market. '], ['However, he pointed out that because the country’s retail market system is controlled by a few, it has made the government to rethink about bringing rapid reforms.Just like the telecom sector was opened to foreign competition so will Ethiopia’s retail market system. Beyond these factors, however, the constant expansion of the exchange rate between the dollar and Birr has contributed significantly to the running inflation, he said.'], ['“There is no one within the government that says the reform we have started in foreign exchange sector is not harmful,” Dr. Eyob said, but the government needs to overcome the impact. There are also implications of the delay in the reform itself, but “we will implement that quickly and work to solve the problems.”'], ['Although reforms have made a big difference, especially in the export sector, when challenges pile up, delaying some reforms will be seen as a solution, he said.'], ['According to the State Minister, the doubling of prices in some products in the international market, such as steel, edible oil, and fuel, as well as the security situation in Ethiopia has caused major supply disruption and the current inflation.'], ['But he also blamed traders who don’t consider profits as adequate unless they make a whooping profit margin of 200 per cent. He said when the retail market system is open to competition, it will make these traders “to come back to their senses.”'], ['The latest sharp increase in commodities is the price of cooking oil. This week, the sudden increase has sent officials scrambling for answers. The price for a pack of five liters edible oil soared to ETB1000 at retail stores this week up from ETB600 last week. Addis Abeba city Mayor Adanech Abiebie issued a statement on Monday 07 March warning traders refraining from hoarding and unreasonable increases in prices. '], ['It was on 01 December 2021 that the Central Bank of Ethiopia issued new directive in which it had changed priority list of items for import in order for commercial banks to provide foreign currency allocation. Inputs for edible oil production was among the prioritized lists in order to stabilize the market.'], ['However, according to Addis Fortune weekly business newspaper, the government has failed to allocate foreign currency to palm oil importers. Citing a survey conducted by the Ethiopian Edible Oil Manufacturer Industries’ Association the newspaper reported “the industry is gripped by challenges in shortages of agricultural inputs and associated price surges.”'], ['Similarly, in a recent interview with Wazema Radio, State Minister for Trade and Regional Co-operation, Hassan Mohammed, said that out of the seven large oil refineries in Ethiopia, only five were currently supplying their oil products to consumers.'], ['Citing data obtained from the Ministry, Wazema reported that the number of businesses that obtained licenses to distribute edible oil were far more greater and are more accessible than businesses registered with the Ministry to produce edible oil locally. This has led investors to resort to importing edible oil instead of producing it locally.'], ['But foreign currency shortage is not the only factor for the cooking oil shortage and subsequent price hike. A joint Ethiopia Oilseeds 2020 Annual report by United States Department of Agriculture and Global Agricultural Information Network, which was published in March 2021, said that “sesame seed production in MY 2020/21(October-September) was projected at 255,000 metric tons (MT), down by 25,000 MT over the previous year’s estimate.” The report said this was “attributed to reduction in acreage.”'], ['“Total area for sesame production is estimated at 520,000 hectares (HA),down by 13 percent compared to the prior year. The contraction in sesame acreages is driven by shifts in production of alternative food crops, namely sorghum.”'], [' Beyond the export market, however, increased oilseeds production was expected to meet the growing demand for cooking oil and livestock feed through implementations of Integrated Agro-Industrial Parks '], ['Further complicating the domestic production is the war in Tigray and tensions along the Sudanese border during the harvest season, which affected logistics and supply. “Looking forward, sesame seed production in MY 2021/22 will likely trend downward due to persistent conflict and border tension near major growing areas. Farmers may also cut sesame seed planting for next year’s crop and continue transitioning to alternative crops including sorghum, mung beans, soybeans, and sunflower seeds.”'], ['Before the war broke out in November 2020, western Tigray’s sesame farms produced a third of Ethiopia’s total exports. Since the war, however, western Tigray is under Amhara state administration along with Eritrean security forces. Data on sesame cultivation of the year 2021 are hard to come by.'], ['Beyond the export market, however, increased oilseeds production was expected to meet the growing demand for cooking oil and livestock feed through implementations of Integrated Agro-Industrial Parks, such as the Bure Integrated Agro-Industrial Park in Amhara Regional State, which was inaugurated in February last year.'], [' Meanwhile, in what appears to be a massive scale crackdown on hoarders, Addis Abeba city government and regional state governments are announcing the seizure of millions of liters of cooking oil in the last two days '], ['“Furthermore, several other edible oil complexes are expected to commence productions by end of this year. This expansion in agro-industries and edible oil processing is projected to strengthen oilseeds production in the longer term, but as current production of oilseeds is not sufficient, imports are expected in the short term,” the joint Ethiopia Oilseeds 2020 Annual report said.'], ['According to Fortune Newspaper, “Phibela, Worku Aytenew (W.A.), Shemu, Harmessa and Al-Impex are the five industrial-scale oil plants that receive the federal government’s allocation” foreign currency. “The most aggravating issue remains the unavailability of foreign currency needed to buy crude palm oil and replace machinery,” the paper reported. '], ['Meanwhile, in what appears to be a massive scale crackdown on hoarders, Addis Abeba city government and regional state governments are announcing the seizure of millions of liters of cooking oil in the last two days. This follows the announcement on Monday by Mayor Adanech that the city administration was setting up a task force to monitor illegal trade practices including hoarding. AS']]}, {'Date': 'March 9, 2022', 'Header': '#ASDailyScoop: City Mayor says Sheger Bakery to resume distribution tomorrow', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – Adanech Abiebie, Mayor of Addis Abeba city, said this morning that Sheger Bakery will resume services of providing bread to city residents as of tomorrow. The Mayor said the city government has subsidized the Bakery to a tune of ETB613 million and ETB198 million for wheat supply  in order to resume production and distribution of bread to the city’s low income community.  '], ['“As the product goes on sale tomorrow, the community can get bread at our distribution centers,” Adanech said.  '], [' “We respectfully call on the business community of our city to be considerate of one another, reduce your profits for the time being and benefit your people.”    '], ['“However, it is known that there are shortages especially in reaching to the priority segments of the society,” the Mayor said, adding that although the city administration has taken steps to monitor this, there are indications that better-off businesses and investors are taking advantage of the government’s subsidy to make profits.  '], ['The Mayor called on the community to play its part in pointing out, exposing, and controlling this situation. She also said the city government “respectfully call on the business community of our city to be considerate of one another, reduce your profits for the time being and benefit your people.”   '], ['News: Sheger Bakery ceases production, leaves city\'s growing low-income families in despair https://t.co/tEkLMkIq13 "This is the only thing the government has provided for the low-income community but now it stopped working" Zenebech Kelemawork, told @MahletFasil'], ['Sheger Bakery, a Bakery which was expected to cater millions in Addis Abeba with subsidized and consistent bread supply, has ceased production and distribution last month, barely a year and half after its much-hailed inauguration. '], ['Built by MIDROC Ethiopia, which is owned by the Ethio-Saudi billionaire, Sheikh Mohammed Hussien Al Amoudi, at a cost of 900 million birr, this state-of-the-art bakery was expected to produce 1.8 million loaves of bread a day and 80,000 per hour, according to a statement distributed at its inauguration back in June 2020. But already, as far back as January 2021, just six months into its inauguration, the Bakery had stated that it had lost 70 million birr in the first five months alone, and attributed the loss to the price hikes and lack of inputs. However, despite the challenges, the Bakery was able to produce between 700,000 to 800,000 loaves of bread per day and was distributing its products to city residents through more than 400 retail shops located in and around Addis Abeba, including from converted city buses. AS']]}]
[{'Date': 'March 4, 2022', 'Header': '#EthiopiaDrought: Disaster Risk Management Commission says drought forces hundreds of schools closure in Oromia, Somali states; millions of people, livestock in need', 'news_paragraphs': [['Getahun Tsegaye @GetahunTsegay12'], ['Addis Abeba – The National Disaster Risk Management Commission (NDRMC) announced that close to 400 Schools were forced to close in Oromia and Somali regional state, which are the most affected states by the current drought. Millions of people and livestock are also facing dire shortage of water and food in multiple Woredas in the two regional states. \xa0'], ['Debebe Zewde,Public Relations officer of NDRMC, told Deutsche Welle Amharic that  61 schools in Borena and East Bale zones of Oromia region were closed, while\xa0316 were closed in Somali regional state due to the drought which has severely affected\xa0pastoralists and semi-pastoralists of the two regions.\xa0'], ['East and West Harerge, and East Bale lowland areas, as well as Borena and West Guji zones of Oromia\xa0region were facing severe problems and food shortage. “In 40 woredas of\xa0 five zones in the region,\xa08.4 million animals have been affected\xa0and 257,000 are malnourished,”\xa0Debebe said.'], ['According to him, in 605 kebeles of 70 woredas in East Arsi and Bale zones, East and West Hararge, Borena and West Guji, 2.8 million people are\xa0 in need of drinking water; the drought in 14 woredas of the Borena and East Bale zones alone has caused the closure of 61 schools.\xa0'], ['He further said that more than 3.1 million people were in need of emergency food assistance in these areas of whom 8,244 are\xa0newly\xa0affected people by the drought. Some 254,000 quintals of grains were distributed in\xa0the two zones so far, he said, and added that the rest of the drought\xa0affected areas were being assisted as per the  NDRMC’s regular schedule. He said 100 water tanks were distributing water to ease the water shortage problem.\xa0'], ['Similarly, some 3.1 million people are facing water shortage in 83 woredas of Somali regional state, where 864, 043 animals have died from July last year to February, according to NDRMC. Debebe further said that in the Somali region alone the drought affected 58, 305 people who needed to be resettled to other drought free areas.  The drought has affected the teaching-learning process of 915 schools of which 316 have completely been shut down.\xa0'], ['The drought has left 3,360,000 in need of food aid in Somali region alone, of whom more than two million were exposed to food shortage . According to Debebe, the government has distributed 530,000 quintals of grains to 1.7 million people;  a total of 311,000 people living in 15 woredas were assisted with ETB255 million cash distribution. Furthermore, 159 water tanks were being distributed to 81 woredas of the region, he said.\xa0'], ['Somali regional state and other parts of the Ethiopian lowlands, including in southern Oromia, have been ravaged by recurrent droughts primarily caused by low precipitation due to failure of three subsequent rainy seasons. Drought has become part of the lowlanders’ life and over the past two decades the Somali region has experienced it once in every 5 years. The drought has devastated the entire livelihoods of the population, especially pastoralists and farmers whose lives directly depend on the seasonal rains, according to the UN. '], ['On 25 February, the WFP said that in order to expand its response across the Somali, Oromia and Southern Nations, Nationalities and Peoples regions, WFP urgently needs US $219 million. In a recent in depth analysis, Addis Standard reported that the drought in the southern part of Oromia especially in Borana and Guji zones where thousands of livestock have perished. Half a million residents who are dependent on livestock products are now in need of emergency food aid. '], ['The severity of the drought in the Borana zone is to the extent that all thirteen woredas face shortage of fodder and potable water.\xa0In Somali region, the drought hit hard different woredas in Dawa zone, as Addis Standard’s reporting from late November last year indicated. The crisis has already led to displacement and threatened severe humanitarian crisis. '], ['Although many areas in the region are affected by the prolonged drought, the Dawa zone has been affected the most. Dawa zone borders and shares Moyale as an administrative center with the Borana zone of the Oromia regional state, another area affected badly by drought and is mostly inhabited by pastoral and agro-pastoral communities. AS']]}, {'Date': 'March 3, 2022', 'Header': 'News: War in Tigray takes a toll on children', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – Medical professionals who spoke with Deutsche Welle (DW) reporter in Mekelle, the capital of Tigray state, say the war in tigray has taken a toll on children. '], ['Quoting medical professionals and eye witnesses, the news portal reported that since the onset of the war in Tigray in November 2020, children have suffered physical, sexual and psychological traumas.   Medical professionals at Ayder Referral Hospital in Mekele, said 139 children from Mekelle and its environs alone have come to the hospital seeking treatment for injuries sustained by weapons in the last 16 months of the war. Of these, 11 children have died.  '], ['Additional 39 children were permanently disabled.  Furthermore, countless children are currently at risk of starvation, are exposed to lack of vaccines and other medicines, while others are separated from their parents or guardians. '], ['News Alert: 33,000 severely malnourished children currently inaccessible in #Tigray at high risk of death: @UNICEF https://t.co/j95IK1mX3O UNICEF projects that out of the estimated 56,000 children in Tigray who will need treatment for severe wasting in 2021… @EteneshAb reports'], ['On 11 June last year, Henrietta Fore, UNICEF’s Executive Director, warned that “without humanitarian access to scale up our response, an estimated 33,000 severely malnourished children in currently inaccessible areas in Tigray are at high risk of death.”'], [' James Elder, another official at UNICEF, said “more young children and babies slide dangerously close to sickness and potential death from malnutrition. UNICEF is working with our partners to provide nutrition, health care and clean water support. The world cannot permit that to happen.” '], ['According to the latest humanitarian update from the UN, nutrition supplies for the treatment of severe acute malnutrition among young children were airlifted to Tigray, for the first-time since mid-December. However, no food distribution was reported between 17 and 23 February, “as food and fuel in the region is almost entirely exhausted.” '], ['“During the reporting week, humanitarian organizations airlifted 47 MT of medical and nutrition supplies to Mekelle, Tigray, bringing the total supplies airlifted since 24 January to 144 MT. The supplies this week included 10 MT of nutritional supplies (Ready to Use Therapeutic Food – RUTF), the first-time entering Tigray since mid-December, and will be distributed in Mekelle, Eastern and South-Eastern zones to treat severe acute malnutrition among children under five,” the UN said. '], ['The UN warned that as of 02 March, food partners reported they have “less than 600 liters of fuel available (excluding contingency stock) and only around 800 MT of food commodities within Tigray.” AS ']]}, {'Date': 'March 3, 2022', 'Header': '#ASDailyScoop: Ethio-Sudan border via Gallabat-Metema reopens for movement of people, goods', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – The Ethio-Sudan cross border trade and movement of people via the Gallabat-Metema resumed after several months, Amhara regional state government media reported. '], ['In early April 2021,Sudan had closed the strategic crossing blaming an attack by Ethiopian militiamen against Sudanese custom officers in the presence of Ethiopian forces. After a brief reopening  the border was again closed in July 2021 after Sudanese authorities accused Ethiopian militiamen of murdering a Sudanese military officer after he was kidnapped from the crossing point.'], ['It remained closed until January this year, when Ethiopian and Sudanese military officials held talks and agreed to form joint border patrols in the border crossing areas between the two countries. According to Sudanese media reports, the joint meeting, “which lasted more than six hours, agreed to deploy joint border patrols to maintain security, keep refugee camps away from the border and exchange information.”'], ['The border was then briefly reopened, but Sudanese authorities closed it only 10 days after the resumption of cross-border movement of people and goods.'], ['During the reopening meeting on 02 March, Colonel Mohamed Abdel Madid, Gellabat Customs Office Head, said that security forces of the two countries should work together to solve security problems in the region including in areas of information exchange and joint survey to ensure mutual security.'], ['Getu Seleme, head of the Metema Yohannes City Administration Peace and Security Office, on his part said that the two authorities will work together to stop criminal activities in the area and to ensure the peace and continue to strengthen business ties.'], [' Movement of people and import and export of goods is allowed from 7:00 AM to 5:30 PM local time. AS']]}, {'Date': 'March 1, 2022', 'Header': 'In-depth analysis: Diarrhea ravages drought-stricken Guji, Borana zones in Oromia; officials say medicines, water purifying chemicals short', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Dereje Gonfa @DerejeGonfa '], ['Addis Abeba – Residents of Guji, West Guji and Borana zones of Oromia regional state told Addis Standard that diarrhea outbreak was ravaging many households in several areas. However, local and region health officials who spoke to Addis Standard said there was shortage of water purifying chemicals and medicines to filter the water being delivered by water trucks, which is contributing to increased number of  diarrhea cases but it has not reached the level an outbreak.  '], ['Guji and Borana zones are two of the eight zones in Oromia that are hit hard by lack of food and water due to the current drought, which has left close to 7 million Ethiopians in need of food aid in Ethiopia, according to the UN. The Ethiopian Ministry of Health and Ethiopian Public Health Institute, along with the regional health bureau, are working to respond to the crisis and have launched an immediate investigation, the federal Ministry of Health said.'], ['Boru Dullecha, a resident of Negelle Borena city in Guji zone, told Addis Standard that four of his family members were getting treatment for diarrhea. “The problems that are brought into Guji zone as the result of drought are countless, it’s becoming a threat to our lives,” Boru said, adding that “absence of appropriate response from different stakeholders worsening the problem.” '], ['According to him, “bad smell and water pollution caused by the bodies of dead animals have put the health of the society in danger. Trucks that used to serve us water deliveries have now stopped due to security issues. Many patients with diarrhea are traveling on donkeys, since there is no transportation service in these areas. In Guji, no one is aware about the health situation; we requested officials but couldn’t get the response.”'], ['Locals who spoke to Addis Standard say it amounts to an outbreak and it is severe in rural villages, where “people use to drink any kind of water from any source” Boru further said. He believes that the communities couldn’t have been affected this much “if there was enough access to [water purifying] chemicals to filter the water. Now, the number of patients is continuously increasing from day to day, specially children, who are suffering a lot. We need immediate solution,” he said.'], ['Gumi Godana, a resident of western Guji zone, Bule Hora town, shared Boru’s frustration, and stated that the problem was  worse in rural areas. “Many cattle are dead due to illness. The water is  polluted when the dead bodies of these cattle are swept into it. Since there is no other source of water other than this, the residents use the same polluted water, causing the outbreak in many districts.” Gumi says the outbreak is spreading fast and wide, and that “many children and women were admitted to health centers. But there is no attempt to filter the water by chemicals yet. We have a great reservation on the silence [from authorities] while many people lost their lives due to famine, and now this disease is killing many.”'], ['Guyo Tulle of Borena zone, Wachille district, is another resident who corroborated the widespread presence of the diarrhea outbreak in the areas. Lack of clean water and shortage of food are still the main reasons for the death in that district. “One day a small downpour of rain added debris of dead bodies of cattle to the water, but the communities continued to drink the same water because  there is no other choice. Even the water trucks serve this polluted water to the public. The problem has now changed and dozens of people are being treated on a daily basis,” Guyo told Addis Standard. '], [' “Before this happened, one or two patients were admitted per week. Now about 70 patients come to the healthcare centers daily. We are out of medicine stock that could have lasted a year under normal circumstances.” '], ['Boru Bule, who organizes health care facility support in Wachille district, said that “the number of patients with severe diarrhea being admitted to health care centers was increasing from day to day. Before this happened, one or two patients were admitted per week. Now about 70 patients come to the healthcare centers daily. We are out of medicine stock that could have lasted a year under normal circumstances.”'], ['According to Boru, managing the diarrhea outbreak is not beyond the capacity of healthcare professionals, but they are running out of medication. “The shortage of medications can be detrimental to the lives of diarrhea patients. People who didn’t make it to the hospital have died from this, Diarrhea is fatal if not treated,” Boru said and pleaded with governmental and non government organizations to provide medicines as well as water purifying chemicals.'], ['Arero Bicicha, the administrator of Yabelo General Hospital, on his part told Addis Standard that the hospital has been receiving cases of diarrhea that were referred to it from local health centers.  “However, we have more cases of malnutrition than diarrhea.”'], ['He stated that malnutrition due to the drought was making the peoples’ immunity weaker; and all the domestic animals that perished due to the severity of the drought remain laying around, exposing the local community to all sorts of disease. The number of people coming to the hospital due to various diseases, not only diarrhea, is also increasing, he said.'], ['“We are facing shortage of medicine, [because] we are not getting enough supply. Patients admitted to the hospital don’t have enough food to eat; they need medication that enables their body to recover. These patients have a long hospital stay, but we don’t have the medicine that matches the number of patients,” Arero said. '], [' “We are facing shortage of medicine, [because] we are not getting enough supply. Patients admitted to the hospital don’t have enough food to eat; they need medication that enables their body to recover. These patients have a long hospital stay, but we don’t have the medicine that matches the number of patients” '], ['According him, more than 54 children are receiving treatment at the hospital for malnutrition. Women and elderly are also affected by malnutrition and other complications. Many have lost their lives to drought induced health problems, he said. He underlined the severity of the situation and pleaded for a lasting solution. “We plead to concerned bodies to provide a lasting solution. Both patients with malnutrition and diarrhea require treatment, but the latter is fatal and requires immediate attention.”'], ['Molu Dima, head of Borana zone health office, has admitted to the increasing case of diarrhea but refutes it was an outbreak. “It has not reached an outbreak level yet,” he said, but admitted that “because of water shortage people are forced to consume contaminated water that has exposed the community to diarrhea and other related diseases.” '], ['Molu reveals diarrhea cases have increased in Dillo, Wachille, Dire Miyo, Taltallee and other districts of the Borana zone, and complained about shortage of medicines, “The problem is aggravated by shortage of medicine and lack of water purifying chemicals,” he said, adding “the corpses of animals that perished [due to the drought] is complicating the situation further”. At the moment, local authorities are mobilizing the community to bury the remains to alleviate the problem, Molu said. '], [' “The number of diarrhea cases have increased but this is not an outbreak. The drought affected areas are susceptible to such diseases, so we focus on preventing death” '], ['Molu expressed his fear of catastrophe a prolonged drought could bring, and explained the situation to the delegation led by the Minister of Health. Dr. Lia Tadesse, who visited Borana recently. “If the drought continues like this, the number of people with diarrhea and other related diseases will increase. We have explained this to the delegation stressing on the importance of supplying medicine and water purifying chemicals and the delegation promised to provide it in a very short time.”'], ['Abera Botore, the deputy head of the Oromia health bureau, also admitted that reports received by the local health bureaus show a significant increase in diarrhea cases. Abera attributed the increase to water contamination. According to him the water distributed using water trucks in several areas was not treated due to shortage of purifying chemicals. However, unlike the local community, he too refused to call it an outbreak. “The number of diarrhea cases have increased but this is not an outbreak. The drought affected areas are susceptible to such diseases, so we focus on preventing deaths,” he said. He also refuted reports of death from diarrhea.'], ['On 22 February, officials from the Ministry of Health, including Minister Lia Tadesse, and the Ministry of Agriculture, WHO Ethiopia, FAO Ethiopia & UNICEF Ethiopia, jointly visited the drought affected Borena Zone. “During the visit, the delegation discussed with zonal leaders on the emergency response and gaps for further intervention, & handed over 31 metric tons of emergency medical supplies from WHO Ethiopia,” Dr. Lia said. AS']]}, {'Date': 'March 1, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Ethiopian Reconciliation Commission dissolves', 'news_paragraphs': [['Getahun Tsegaye @GetahunTsegay12'], ['Addis Abeba – Ethiopian Reconciliation Commission has dissolved three years into its formation by the national parliament which had approved the draft bill establishing the National Reconciliation Commission on 25 December 2018 with the objective to “maintain peace, justice, national unity and consensus and also reconciliation among Ethiopian peoples,” the government said at the time. '], ['But, according to a local media report this morning, the Commission was ordered to hand over its unused budget and office materials to the newly formed National Dialogue Commission (NDC) and dissolve. '], ['The report said that at the end of its term in office, the Reconciliation Commission has requested the House of People’s Representatives (HoPR) to extend its term. However, the House is not yet ready to extend the term of the commission. Following this, the Reconciliation Commission is handing over its office to the NDC, another commission established by law when parliament approved the draft bill on 29 December last year. '], ['In a letter to the Reconciliation Commission in February, the House of Peoples’ Representatives stated that the commission’s term in office had expired and urged it to submit a summary of its activities over the past three years.'], ['The Reconciliation Commission was one of the commissions established by law to help bring about a peaceful Ethiopia by studying and working on areas of contention for a lasting solution to rampant conflict in the country. '], ['In addition to identifying the root causes of conflicts in the past , the commission was also vested with power to identify victims and wrongdoers. It was hoped that the commission would empower the victims by helping hold perpetrators of conflicts to account. It was also also expected to work with the victims in pardoning the culprits once their wrongdoing got exposed and reconciliations mechanisms were endured. '], ['Despite the hope that the Reconciliation Commission will dispose of such responsibilities and obligations as outlined by the proclamation to help bring peace to Ethiopia, its term ended without any significant or visible achievement so far. '], ['The report by the local radio indicated that the Commission is currently handing over the office to the NDC after it has received a verbal note from the Parliament to hand over not only the office materials but also the budget allocated to it by the government.'], ['During its three years in office, the government allocated millions of birr annually. In the last fiscal year alone, the Commission, which included prominent persons, religious leaders,  among others, had a total budget of over ETB21.4 million. From July 2021 until the end of its term last January, the Commission had spent more than four million ETB on its budget. It is now instructed to hand over the remaining budget to the Dialogue Commission. Accordingly, the office of the Federal Auditor General will review the account before it is transferred to the new Commission. AS']]}]
[{'Date': 'March 1, 2022', 'Header': 'Opinion: Drought in Somali state is matter of humanity, should not be politicized', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Mohamed-Taqwim Badel Ali @taqwiim99'], ['Addis Abeba – Somali regional state and some other parts of the Ethiopian lowlands, including in southern Oromia, have been ravaged by recurrent droughts primarily caused by low precipitation due to failure of three subsequent rainy seasons. Drought has become part of the lowlanders’ life and over the past two decades Somali region has experienced it once in every 5 years. Drought has a devastating impact on the entire livelihoods of the population, especially pastoralists and farmers whose lives directly depend on the seasonal rains.'], ['At the same time, pastoralism is the backbone of the regional economy; however it is vulnerable to the effects of these repeated droughts due to low or absence of resilient capacity and/or drought management schemes.'], ['Effective drought management rests on three pillars:\xa0monitoring and early warning; vulnerability and impact assessment; and mitigation, preparedness, and response. All these three pillars are fledgling in Somali region in particular, and the wider horn of Africa in general.'], ['So far, the current drought has affected nine zones in Somali region and an estimated of 3.5 million people, which is almost 35% of the total population of the regional state; furthermore, an estimated 300,000 domestic livestock were lost since October 2021. Apart from these, hundreds of primary schools in the pastoral areas are partially or completely closed as per the regional education report. The number of children, pregnant and lactating women who are malnourished has increased significantly. It has also psychological and physical impacts that may last longer to the affected population.'], [' Drought is a natural phenomenon and dealing with it should be a matter of humanity. It shouldn’t be politicized. It is neither an event that everyone poses for a picture of the needy by giving them half a liter of water and a bag of rice, nor should it become a topic of daily arguments  '], ['Pastoralists have become synonymous with what is called in Somali Nirgo samays, meaning someone who hardly earn an income or produce some products and lose it before consumption and again do it the same and lose it and continue that process till his death comes.'], ['Drought is a natural phenomenon and dealing with it should be a matter of humanity. It shouldn’t be politicized. It is neither an event that everyone poses for a picture of the needy by giving them half a liter of water and a bag of rice, nor should it become a topic of daily arguments among the public and politicians, both government and the opposition.'], ['The regional government is spending a lot of time and resource responding to the complaints from the opposition politicians and social media circles, while we are in a difficult time and the needy people are waiting a collective response and help from us all. The primary responsibility of the government is not only self-defense, but also the safety of people’s life and assets. Actually, the drought is not caused by the regional government, but the administration is responsible for the lives of citizens and their livestock.'], ['In the meantime, political stakeholders have turned the drought discussions into unproductive daily talks of the market that does not go beyond the tea shop sit-ins of criticism and self-defense. Opposition groups see this drought as an opportunity to direct the attention of the public to the weakness of the administration instead of mobilizing the public, raising awareness, collecting funds, and supporting the government’s efforts in responding to the drought.'], ['It is known that this drought has severity and magnitude and not worthy politicizing even if it is an election period, let alone these days.'], ['So far, large-scale fundraising efforts organized by both the government and clans are underway. International partners are also involved in responding to the needs of the affected population. If properly managed, the resources committed by the stakeholders and the people’s participation can minimize the impacts of the drought, but not the solution in the long run.'], ['These pastoralists in Ethiopia are suffering in the stomach of a country that claims its resources and policies are directed towards agricultural development. They are marginalized, underdeveloped, and lacking proper political representation in the central government.'], ['It is inevitable, and as such, the responsibility of all stakeholders to find a lasting solution to recurrent droughts and get pastoralists out of this miserable life. The following are some of the recommended steps to build the resilience of the pastoralists;'], ['The current drought can be managed through greater cooperation between all government levels, non-governmental and international organizations, civil society and the opposition groups. It is also important to speed up responses to minimize the loss of life and assets as it increases on daily basis.'], ['The federal government has the primary responsibility for the pastoralists’ lives and development. These areas were marginalized and least developed; there should be a fair share and affirmative action in the allocation of the national budget to ensure the development of pastoralists and sustainable livelihoods.'], ['Eventually, the rain will come, but the only lasting solution is to build resilience of the pastoralists and agro-pastoralists. AS'], ['__________________________________________________________________________________//___________________________________________________'], ['Editor’s Note: *Mohamed-Taqwim Badel Ali is a Lecturer at Jigjiga University, Institute of Pastoral and Agro-pastoral Development Studies'], ['']]}, {'Date': 'March 1, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Orbit Innovation Hub, Mastercard Foundation’s First cohort of 15 Tech-Driven Start-Ups creates 89 jobs', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – On 28 February  Orbit Innovation Hub and Mastercard Foundation marked the successful completion of a pilot incubation and acceleration program for start-ups. The year-long program was designed to help budding entrepreneurs turn their ideas, or early-stage start-ups, into thriving businesses. The program’s first cohort consisted of 15 start-up founders who are now using technology to solve problems in public health, transportation, logistics, education, and hospitality.'], ['During the program, which is part of the Mastercard Foundation’s Young Africa Works initiative, the start-up founders benefited from rigorous training, networking, and mentoring from business experts. Each start-up founder/co-founder also received $5,000 to set up or scale their business. Today, the start-ups from the pilot program have collectively created 89 jobs for young people, with roughly 40 percent of the new roles occupied by young women.'], ['Dr. Essete Yohannes, one of the participants in the program, is a Co-Founder of Techmed: a women-led, technology-based home-to-home medical care platform. Techmed uses a digital application and short SMS number to provide a 24-hour service to customers with a safe and secure registration system for both clients and health professionals. Reflecting on the program, she said: “The Orbit Innovation Hub helped us improve our business, chart a clear roadmap, and articulate a strong and compelling vision. It also connected us to industry experts who provided us with massive support.”'], ['The success of the pilot program demonstrates the untapped opportunity within digital innovation. “Innovation and entrepreneurship are essential for the digital economy to succeed. Ethiopia cannot and should not be left behind. Therefore, it is essential to create Incubation/Acceleration hubs that enable us to monitor the needs of young people within the innovative technology space,” said Girum Habtewold, Orbit Health COO.Mastercard Foundation Mesfin Guaguro,Ethiopia Program Lead, MSME, Mastercard Foundation, addresses the audience at the closing ceremony marking the successful completion of a pilot incubation and acceleration program for start-ups on Monday, February 28, 2022'], ['During the year long incubation program, Orbit Innovation Hub served as an entrepreneur’s mobilization/connection center in the start-up community, enabling young entrepreneurs to connect and network. The hub hosted seven Start-up Thursday networking events that were held both virtually and in-person, and that brought together over 5,000 young people and aspiring entrepreneurs. It also hosted established entrepreneurs and leaders as speakers, including:'], ['“This program demonstrates the clear potential that incubation and innovation hubs have for supporting the start-up ecosystem and, ultimately, creating jobs. What we learned will continue to guide our work as we seek to enable dignified and fulfilling work for 10 million young people in Ethiopia,” said Samuel Yalew Adela, Country Head, Mastercard Foundation.'], ['Orbit Innovation hub will continue to build the start-up ecosystem in Ethiopia alongside government and non-governmental organizations. Leveraging lessons from the pilot program, it is designing a similar initiative that will have greater reach and impact.Mastercard Foundation Orbit Innovation Hub and Mastercard Foundation’s First Cohort of 15 Tech-Driven Start-Ups Creates 89 Jobs'], ['About the Orbit Innovation Hub (OIH)'], ['Orbit Innovation Hub (OIH) is a startup hub that incubates and accelerates digital innovations with an inclination towards healthcare by leveraging a global network of experienced professionals, investors, partners, and industry leaders. The Hub is aimed at creating a strong and well-connected technology ecosystem in Ethiopia where innovators in the region can get the appropriate financial and logistics support and guidance. OIH strives to foster innovation and entrepreneurship in sectors where innovation has not been as common before.\xa0 For more information please visit: http://www.orbitinnovationhub.com/'], ['About the Mastercard Foundation'], ['The Mastercard Foundation works with visionary organizations to enable young people in Africa and in Indigenous communities in Canada to access dignified and fulfilling work. It is one of the largest, private foundations in the world with a mission to advance learning and promote financial inclusion to create an inclusive and equitable world. The Foundation was created by Mastercard in 2006 as an independent organization with its own Board of Directors and management. \xa0 For more information on the Foundation, please visit: www.mastercardfdn.org. Dispatch']]}, {'Date': 'February 28, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Afar People’s Party calls for urgent humanitarian supply, withdrawal of Tigrayan forces; declines to take part in national dialogue', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – The opposition Afar People’s Party (APP) called on the “International Community to address the humanitarian crisis taking place in Northern part of Afar Region with urgent humanitarian assistance.”  It also said the international community should “pressure TPLF to withdraw immediately and unconditionally from Afar Regional State and respect the constitutional sovereignty of Afar Regional State.” '], [' The party added that it “has decided not to participate in the process” Ethiopia’s planned national dialogue “due to its exclusiveness , lack of transparency and huge and direct influence and involvement of [the] federal government,”  and called on the government to “ensure the inclusiveness of the dialogue by inviting all stakeholders including the opposition political parties.”  By so doing, the opposition party has become among dozens of other opposition parties and civic organizations to have raised a serious concern on the lack of transparency, inclusiveness and legitimacy of Ethiopia’s recently formed National Dialogue Commission (NDC). '], ['In a similar statement, APP also rejected any “exclusive, non-pariticipatory bilateral deals or negotiations” between “TPLF and the Government of Ethiopia while a deadly war is still taking place in Afar and the northern part of Afar region is under the occupation of TPLF,” and demanded “a total withdrawal of TPLF forces from the Afar”.   '], ['The party accused Tigrayan forces of mounting “unprovoked and systematic offensive” which has created “a wave of civilian displacement and a mass exodus of population exposing them to hunger and thirst in desert landscape.” Among the seven point resolution it released, the party has included a call for “Human Rights bodies to investigate the war crimes committed by TPLF during its occupation in Afar regional State.” '], ['Urgent appeal to the International Community by Afar People’s Party in Ethiopia'], ['the Afar Regional State is neighboring to Amhara, Oromia, Somali and Tigray regions, while internationally bordering to Djibouti and Eritrea. This geopolitically important region that predominantly inhabited by indigenous Afar pastoralist is now exposed to unimaginable scale of grievances and humanitarian calamities due to the invasion of Tigray People Liberation Front (TPLF) and its military forces.'], ['The first unprovoked invasion of Afar region by TPLF began in mid-July 2021 occupying the central Afar zone (Zone 4) leaving hundreds of thousands displaced, infrastructures destroyed, domestic animals were raided and mass-killed by heavy artillery, schools and health facilities are looted and burned down to the ground . Civilian causalities in this attack are much under-reported given the majority of the victims are pastoralists without civil registration system.'], ['However, the heinous bloodbath occurred on 5 August 2021 in Gaalikooma kebele of Gulina district in Zone 4, where more than 280 displaced families temporarily sheltered-in health and a school facilities bombarded by heavy artillery of Tigary forces. The victims of this barbaric act were children, women and elderly IDPs. This act of terror was reported by the press statement of UNICEF.'], ['In September 2021, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights reported about the prevailing atmosphere of fear, and deterioration of living conditions and gross violations of human rights that resulted in the forced displacement and suffering of the civilian population.'], ['The second aggression of TPLF on Afar started on 24 Jan 2022; one month just after the TPLF announced its troops withdrawal from both the Afar and Amhara regions. Since then residents of Aba’ala, Magale, Erebti, Barahle and Konnaba are enduring the harshest period. This second unprovoked and systematic offensive has created a wave of civilian displacement and a mass exodus of population exposing them to hunger and thirst in desert landscape.'], ['Moreover, a systematic destruction of health facilities, looting and burning of food stores and warehouses for essential medicines, confiscations of domestic animals and plundering of small business has disrupted the livelihood of Afar people. Hence, the entire region is facing famine like situation. Similarly there is a growing challenge with regard to deteriorating health conditions of IDPs (Internally Displaced People) where essential medicines are inaccessible.'], ['The magnitude of infrastructure destruction and human suffering as well as crime against humanity in Afar region is unfolding in daily bases. Afar people are now a nation going through a trauma, while both the Federal Government of Ethiopia and the International Community stays silent to what is happening.'], ['It is important to recall that the Afar People’s Party (APP) has decided not to Participate in the process of National Dialogue and Reconciliation Commission; due to it’s exclusiveness , lack of transparency and huge and direct influence and involvement of Federal Government.'], ['We reject any exclusive,non-pariticipatory bilateral deals or negotiations of both TPLF and GoE while a deadly war is still taking place in Afar and the northern part of Afar region is under the occupation of TPLF.'], ['APP demands a total withdrawal of TPLF forces from the Afar region and stops any conflict in order to initiate a genuine dialogue and lasting peace. APP calls up on the Federal Government of Ethiopia to ensure the inclusiveness of the dialogue by inviting all stakeholders including the opposition political parties.'], ['Afar People’s Party is a legally registered political party that has been chairing the Ethiopian Political Parities Joint Council and participated in national election 2021.'], ['1. The International Community to address the humanitarian crisis taking place in Northern part of Afar Region with urgent humanitarian assistance;'], ['2. International community to pressure TPLF to withdraw immediately and unconditionally from Afar Regional State and respect the constitutional sovereignty of Afar Regional State;'], ['3. The Federal Government of Ethiopia to ensure the protection and safety of its citizens, by showing a clear and open terms and conditions of ceasefire, humanitarian access to all those in need and withdrawal of occupying forces;'], ['4. The Federal Government of Ethiopia to revisit the National Dialogue and Reconciliation Commission; it’s independence , it’s all inclusivity and transparency of it’s process, due to the fact that we believe the process is as equally important as the anticipated outcome;'], ['5. The Afar Regional Government to clearly follow up and update both media and the general public on current crisis in the region;'], ['6. Human Rights bodies to investigate the war crimes committed by TPLF during its occupation in Afar regional State ;'], ['7. The International Community to support the devastated social and economic infrastructures as well as the livelihood of pastoralists deliberately destroyed by the invading Tigray forces.'], ['Afar People’s Party'], ['Samara, February 27, 2022']]}, {'Date': 'February 25, 2022', 'Header': '#EthiopiaDrought: PM Abiy says drought-induced hunger costing lives of children, elderly; asks Ethiopians to help affected communities', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – In a statement he released late this evening, Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed said that the hunger induced by the current drought is “making us lose the lives of children and the elderly,” and cautioned that “if we wait until the rainy season arrived, we will lose many of our loved ones.” '], ['PM Abiy criticized that “drought comes naturally, but hunger is the result of our laziness.”  “Drought is a natural occurrence, but hunger is man-made; it is created by our laziness and poor agriculture policies,” he said.  '], ['“The issue of food security, the journey of sustainably parting company with hunger and disease isn’t something to be left for a few or an temporary agenda”, the PM said, “it is a common issue that we must overcome together as a nation.” However, this can can only change if  ”we uncover it and study it, not if we hide it,” he said, adding: “the choice we have is one: to work together to bring a lasting solution.”  '], ['This is the first public statement the Prime Minister released in relation to the drought affecting in particular Oromia and Somali regional states as well as parts of SNNPR.'], [' “AS we strive to find a lasting solution to the famine, we must do what we can for those in need. I take this opportunity to make my call.”  The PM said that there was no enemy as drought and famine that have tested Ethiopia in its history, “as has been the case every ten years. “Foreign invaders who came to colonize us did not really test us as do famine and pestilence,” PM Abiy said, adding that food insecurity has caused child stunting, driven the youth to migration, the suffering of the elderly, the perishing of livestock.    '], ['The Prime Minister asked Ethiopian banks to serve farmers and pastoralists who have saved their money with them in the last two decades. “Just as you have made a difference by financing the construction sector, so should you devise ways to finance the agriculture sector.” '], ['He promised that the government would provide variety of incentives for investors in the areas of supply of seeds, agricultural inputs and equipment. Investors and farmers who engage in large scale irrigation and improved farming activities will be encouraged in many ways, he said.'], ['Ethiopia is experiencing a prolonged drought after three consecutive failed rainy seasons since late 2020 affecting 6.8 million people living in Oromia, SNNP, Southwest and Somali. Several areas in eastern and southeastern Ethiopia, including in the regions of Somali (10 zones), Oromia (8 zones), Southwest (1 zone) and Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples – SNNP (7 zones) are experiencing sever drought. “People living in these same areas have barely managed to recuperate from the severe drought in 2017 to witness again such harsh conditions, the first signs of which started appearing towards the end of 2020. The conditions continued to worsen with the successive failed seasons in 2021. The next season in March/April 2022 might also be well below normal, making it the fourth consecutive failed rainy season thus leading more people into an alarming situation,” the UN said. '], ['A recent FAO assessment estimates that at least US$53 million is required only for the agriculture sector to safeguard 360,000 core breeding animals belonging to 180,000 households, treat 4.5 million heads of livestock and vaccinate 6 million cattle and 10.5 million small ruminants belonging to 435,000 households in the affected areas. More than 260,000 livestock have already perished across Somali, southern Oromia and SNNP regions in January alone, and additional 2 million livestock are at risk across affected areas. AS']]}, {'Date': 'February 25, 2022', 'Header': '#EthiopiaDrought: WFP responds as the worst drought in a lifetime intensifies hunger', 'news_paragraphs': [['With each season drier than the last, families inch closer and closer to losing all'], ['25 February 2022, Adrienne Bolen '], ['In decades past on the plains of Adadle district, in Ethiopia’s Somali Region, grass used to grow so tall that lions could hide in it, people say. Not anymore.\xa0'], ['Over the past four months, community hubs in the district have been deserted; more than 80 households have left in search of water. But it’s not the first time that Hana, a 49-year-old grandmother, has had to migrate in search of water. This time around, however, her cattle are too weak to stand let alone travel in the 40°C heat.\xa0'], ['This drought, which threatens 13 million people across the Horn of Africa,\xa0has already wiped out 17 of her cows. Now she only has five – devastating for a pastoralist. (Pastoralists differ from farmers in that they grow food for themselves, but their entire livelihood is derived from raising and trading in livestock rather than produce.)'], ['In any event, Hana is resigned to staying put with the seven children she is the sole caregiver for. “Whatever happens, happens – but we cannot move,” she says. “We are forced to stay here and focus on what little we can do to care for our cattle, and hope that we survive.”\xa0'], ['Normally, Hana and her family grow enough grain, primarily maize and teff, to sustain themselves all through the three-month dry season – but over the past few years they’ve only been able to produce enough to last a few weeks. When one poor rainy season is followed by another, for years on end, it’s impossible to fully recover.'], ['To keep her remaining animals alive, Hana has no choice but to feed them straw plucked from the thatched roof of her home. Without money to buy fresh fodder, this is all she has left to provide them. “It’s barely enough to keep them alive – they haven’t been able to produce milk in over a year,” she says.'], ['Besides providing emergency food assistance to those affected by drought in the Somali Region, the World Food Programme (WFP) provides microinsurance to pastoralists like Hana to protect their livestock from climate extremes such as drought.\xa0'], ['More than 25,000 families in the region, accounting for 90 percent of those WFP is supporting with the insurance, received a payout in late December to help them cope with the drought’s devastating impact. In total, $900,000 was distributed to the worst affected people. \xa0'], ['Hana pooled her US $35 payout with her neighbors to buy 10,000-litres of water – a top priority for those who are unable to migrate.\xa0'], ['Down the road from Hana lives Abdulahi, who throughout his 70 years has watched traditional methods of rainfed agriculture become obsolete as the rainy seasons become ever shorter and weaker.'], ['“The climate’s changed, weather patterns have changed,” he says. “We know this is contributing to the drought that we are experiencing.”'], ['Every year the Somali Region’s dry season is hotter and drier than the last. This means that families could go from having seven animals one year to three the next year – inching closer and closer to losing it all.'], ['Abdulahi looks around and laughs when asked about the number of animals he has left. “Well, depends on if you count that cow,” he says. “He’ll probably be dead tomorrow – can’t stand anymore and has been suffering under the hot sun for days.”'], ['In October, Abdulahi began to move his family of 16 from his village closer to the river 7km away, to have access to water. Forced to adapt to the changing climate, he learned new irrigation techniques, which he is now funding with the recent payout from WFP-supported insurance.\xa0'], ['He used the money from the payout creatively: to buy fuel for a small generator that pumps water from a stream to irrigate a plot of land to grow fodder for his livestock.'], ['With thanks to funding from Sweden and Denmark, WFP injects support at times of peak need during the dry season to make sure livestock can survive. But as the climate crisis makes it more and more difficult for pastoralists across southern Ethiopia to grow food and care for their livestock, new long-term solutions are needed. \xa0'], ['With more funding, WFP would be able to build on the work it is already doing to change lives in the region such as delivering of early warning messages and cash transfers to help pastoralists prepare for climate shocks before they hit and running school feeding programs for children whose families have been affected by drought.\xa0'], ['WFP has already supported 12,000 pastoralists with seeds and fertilizers as well as trainings on small-scale, drought-resistant agricultural techniques and entrepreneurial skills to help them build \xa0businesses and diversify their livelihoods.\xa0'], ['In the face of bigger and more frequent climate emergencies, such activities are critical and the cheapest way for WFP to save the lives and livelihoods of pastoralists in Ethiopia. To expand its response across the Somali, Oromia and Southern Nations, Nationalities and Peoples regions, WFP urgently needs US $219 million\xa0– this way it can ensure pastoralists like Hana and Abdulahi don’t slip further into food insecurity.\xa0Dispatch ']]}]
[{'Date': 'February 24, 2022', 'Header': 'News: GERD progressing well, won’t hurt downstream countries: MoFA', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Getahun Tsegaye @GetahunTsegay12'], [''], ['Addis Abeba, – The construction of the Great Renaissance Ethiopian Dam (GERD) is progressing well and will not hurt the downstream countries, Ambassador Dina Mufti, Spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in his biweekly press briefing today.'], ['The Spokesperson’s reaction was in response to news that Egypt wrote a letter to the current President of the United Nations Security Council, Vassily Nebenzia, rejecting Ethiopia’s commencement of the operations of GERD and complained that the act lacks legal binding agreement with downstream countries that amounted the breach of the Declaration of Principles signed in 2015. \xa0'], ['#Ethiopia: #GERD begins generating power https://t.co/p7hLDXjBzV the 1st turbine with a capacity of generating 375 MW was inaugurated today. When all 13 turbines are completed, GERD will have a "total generation capacity of 5,150MW & annual energy of 15.76TWH,"@seleshi_b_a said. pic.twitter.com/A5LAObSLen'], ['On 20 February Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed officially announced the beginning of power generation from the first turbine of the GERD which will produce 375 MW. “This is good news for our continent and the downstream countries with whom we aspire to work together,” Pm Abiy said during the inauguration ceremony.'], [' “Once Sudan’s internal problems are handled, the African led riparian negotiation will continue,” '], ['Ambassador Dina underscored that Ethiopia will only use the project for generating electricity and economic development and has no intention of harming the downstream countries in today’s briefing. He further clarified that Ethiopia would not stop its GERD project on the Nile and the two riparian countries, Egypt and Sudan, are always welcome to peaceful negotiation. “Once Sudan’s internal problems are handled, the African led riparian negotiation will continue,” the spokesperson stated.\xa0\xa0\xa0'], ['In the briefing today, ambassador Dina Mufti stated that the Ethiopian government is gravely concerned over the stranded citizens of Ethiopians that are languishing in Saudi Arabian detentions and their situation would be addressed in a serious manner.\xa0\xa0'], ['The spokesperson stated that a National Committee led by Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Affairs Minister, Demeke Mekonnen, was established and details of implementation on the repatriations of the citizens are underway.'], ['In his last parliamentary speech, Abiy Ahmed stated that the repatriation of the stranded citizens from\xa0 Saudi Arabia should be operated with caution and their citizenship should be verified if they really were Ethiopians. “Reports indicated that there are trained assassins, and their number is in the hundreds of thousands which needs to be handled carefully”he said.\xa0'], ['Responding to Addis Standard if the government set plans on identifying ‘criminals’ and ‘assassins’ when repatriating prisoners from Saudi Arabia, ambassador Dina stated that the Ethiopian government would be engaged in filtering and evaluating issues in regard to security, citizenship and identity. “Once all these scrutiny and filtering are done, the repatriation process will start,” he said, without further elaborating the details. '], ['A recent investigation by Addis Standard into the conditions of Ethiopians detained in Saudi Arabia’s prisons revealed that the crackdown of the Saudi government on illegal migrants has mainly targeted Ethiopians.'], ['Ambassador Dina also discussed the U.S. House bipartisan bill Ethiopia Stabilization, Peace, and Democracy Act, or H.R. 6600. “The Act is on the floor of the Congress and we will see how it evolves but it does not help the interests of the two countries,” adding, “Ethiopia has always opened its door for peace talks,” he said. AS']]}, {'Date': 'February 24, 2022', 'Header': 'Analysis: How Tigrayan food experts introduce common plants as food to prevent death by starvation', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Medihane Ekubamichael\xa0@Medihane\xa0'], [''], ['Addis Abeba – Faced with the worst food crisis that many fear has already turning into famine, Tigrayan food experts are adopting creative ways of using common plants, including cactus leaf, and cactus pear, locally known as Beles, and other plants that were previously neglected or were considered as weeds, to provide nutritious food and mitigate the impact of death by starvation.  '], ['A video report by the VOA Amharic showed how Tsega Gebrekidan, a resident in Mekelle, the capital of Tigray state, uses these plants to prepare food at Mekele Garden Refugee Center. '], ['Training is also being provided by Tigrayan food experts at Midregenet IDP center in Mekelle city on how to prepare Beles and other plants, for long neglected and considered as weeds, to help alleviate the impact of starvation due to severe food shortage that struck war-torn Tigray. '], ['This comes in the backdrop of growing alarm at the impact of what the UN called a “de facto blockade” that hampered humanitarian supplies to Tigray. “Famine deaths were mounting,” warned a statement by Refugees International released in early January that revealed a minimum of 425 hunger-related deaths per day, and a “conservative maximum” of 1,201 deaths per day in Tigray.\xa0'], [' “Now we are prevented from getting either food or medicine as we are blockaded in all sides,” Tsega Gebrekidan, said, adding that the only option was to save lives by preparing food using different plants that grow in the localities.'], ['Tsega, along with her colleagues, teaches IDPs in the center on how to use and prepare various foods from different plants which were not commonly used by the local community. In addition to alleviating starvation due to lack of food, Tsega and her colleagues are discovering that in Tigray there are a variety of herbs that are widely used as regular food in other countries.'], [' “…now we use them to protect our people from starvation and disease and devised a method on how people can use what they find in their environment to save their lives.” '], ['“For example, Beles plant, with is also known as cactus pear plant is a staple food in Mexico. The Amaranths and Moringa are also common in other countries, but we still did not use them effectively because we do not know which plants are edible plants in our area,” said Tsega. “But now we use them to protect our people from starvation and disease and devised a method on how people can use what they find in their environment to save their lives.”'], ['Tsega also elaborated that they are teaching the community how to prepare and use these foods, even for the future as the plants contain a variety of ingredients that can replace expensive foods.'], [''], ['According to her, these plants are readily available and can be easily processed and used for food in various ways. “Half mix of other cereals with Beles, bread can be prepared. You can also make something like fried red stew and juice; Tea is prepared from Moringa flour and leaves; stew, salads and other dishes can also be made from it; Amaranths can be used to make things like fries and pan cakes; Purslane can be prepared as fries or we can juice. In addition to the root, the leaves of sweet potato can be roasted and eaten.” '], ['Previously, Tsega Gebrekidan is known for her creative work producing marmalade from Beles and preparing variety of other foods including Beles juice. Before war disrupted her work, she was exporting her organic marmalade jam to countries in Europe. Through the market ties facilitated by the FAO and the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, she was able to export about 4,000 cans of organic marmalade jam to the European markets.'], [' “…we show how to prepare them for diet first. Next, we will show how to plant them in their backyard or how to use them from their natural environment” '], ['Meriteit Hadush, another food expert who is educating ordinary people on how to use these plants, on her part explained that it was important to use these herbs to prevent the current starvation in Tigray. “We started using these [plants] now because of the lack of food, but they are so good that we need to use them for food in the future too,” she said. “Although the plants grow naturally, they are good for human nutrition, so we show how to prepare them for diet first. Next, we will show how to plant them in their backyard or how to use them from their natural environment.” said Meriteit. '], ['Ameha Kahsay is an Assistant Professor of Nutrition Education at Mekelle University and he agrees with what Tsega and  Meriteit are doing. “These plants should be used not only to overcome the current situation but also should be used for the future as food source,” he said. “These plants have been studied in different countries and regions. They are harmless, they are good for our body and mind, as they are highly nutritious, containing vitamins, protein and minerals. They look strange because we focused on other conventional foods at the better times and we neglected and forgot about these plants.” he explained, adding that they will also promote the use of these plants that are traditionally considered as weeds to be used in the community as food.'], ['In April last year the humanitarian crisis in Tigray begun escalating along with access and logistic difficulties compounded by the civil war. Abadi Girmay (PhD), then Tigray interim administration official, expressed his concern that Tigray would experience “unprecedented danger” in the next three to four years if the agricultural sector did not not recover.'], ['The severe food shortage is also exacerbated by subsequent surge in IDPs mostly from from Western Tigray. On 02 December 2021, the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) reported that already\xa01.2 million people\xa0have been displaced from Western Tigray since the beginning of the war'], ['By mid-January this year, humanitarian organizations like the UNOCHA and WFP declared that all-time low food distribution in Tigray as fuel and stocks of nutritionally fortified food for the treatment of malnourished children and women were almost or entirely exhausted and warned dire hunger where they had to choose who goes hungry to prevent another from starving.'], ['#Ethiopia: No food, no fuel, no funding: WFP\'s northern Ethiopia operations grinding to a halt https://t.co/CqhyF36VBQ “We need immediate guarantees from all parties to the conflict for safe and secure humanitarian corridors, via all routes, across northern Ethiopia." pic.twitter.com/Pznc3Z8ZP3'], ['A new food security assessment, released on 28 January by the United Nations World Food Program (WFP), showed that almost 40 percent of Tigrayans were suffering an extreme lack of food, after 15 months of conflict. Meanwhile, across all three conflict-affected regions of the north, more than 9 million people were in need of humanitarian food assistance, the highest number yet.'], ['Tigray’s Emergency Food Security Assessment also revealed that 83 percent of people in the region were food insecure; families were exhausting all means to feed themselves, and three-quarters of the population were already using extreme coping strategies to survive. AS'], ['']]}, {'Date': 'February 24, 2022', 'Header': 'News: EzEMA expresses fear in Dialogue Commission shortcomings; says lasting peace, sovereignty, and unity not easy if future chapters not improved', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – In a statement it issued last night, the political party Ethiopian Citizens for Social Justice (EzEMA) called for shortcomings observed in the formation process of the National Dialogue Commission (NDC) eleven commissioners to be corrected and future works to be improved.  '], ['EzEMA says it accepts the formation of national dialogue as “a solution” that can “provides an opportunity to address our complex structural bottlenecks,” and said it believe if “we can reach at an agreement, we can put the Ethiopian state on a solid footing.”  However, “we fear that it will not be easy to see the lasting peace, sovereignty, and unity that we want the dialogue to achieve if the shortcomings in this process are not corrected and the future works and chapters are not improved.”  '], ['Explaining its reasons, EzEMA said that “it is an open secret” that besides the “rush ” with which formation of the commission was conducted, various persons have expressed reservation on the “problem of transparency.” As EzEMA “we too have observed a serious problem with transparency.”  '], [' “we fear that it will not be easy to see the lasting peace, sovereignty, and unity that we want the dialogue to achieve if the shortcomings in this process are not corrected and the future works and chapters are not improved.”   '], [' The party said that despite the rush to approve the proclamation and the lack of transparency in the nomination of the commissioners, there were lack of clear guidelines on the commissioners’ recommendations, confusing rules nominators faced, lack of consistent guidelines that at times say the public can only nominate one person, and the lack of transparency in the process after commissioners were nominated. '], ['It also said there were insufficient explanations on how many people and who were nominated, and how many people participated in the nomination process. “Transparency is one of the most important issues in the national dialogue, and it is primarily about the process. Equally important with the outcome is the importance on whether we should be concerned about the transparency of the process. Regardless of the outcome of a process that does not involve transparency, the impact of the questions and legitimacy raised on the process will not have easy influence.”  '], ['The other shortcomings EzEMA expressed its concerns about are the “distorted comments” made by government officials about the National Dialogue, the “lack of attention and negligence shown by the media to the issue”, and the way in which the government has subjected the process “to haste and hustle”, as well as the blatant lack of transparency shown on the part of “the legislature” to the process.  '], ['The impact of such events in putting pressure and casting a shadow on the fruitful dialogue we are considering to have will not be easy, EzEMA cautioned.  It further said that as a Party EzEMA understands “that the National Dialogue does not mean solving all our problems and resolving all national differences and disagreements,” but emphasized that “the most important phase of this process is the preparation phase, and the main responsibility will be on the commissioners who were selected in this process.”  As such, it expressed its hopes that “the commissioners elected by the House of Peoples’ Representatives of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia will fulfill their national responsibilities, stand up for the people and their consciences, stand up to pressure from the government, political parties and any other party and write their history in the process of strengthening the Ethiopian state.”   '], ['EzEMA concluded its statement by expressing its hopes that the commissioners “will be able to take full responsibility for the national dialogue and conduct the remaining chapters in a transparent and honest manner.”  '], ['On February 21 the House of Peoples’ Representatives (HoPR) convened a special session and appointed eleven individuals who will become commissioners of the National Dialogue Commission. It followed the approval on 29 December by the House of Proclamation No. 1265/2014 to establish the National Dialogue Commission (NDC) with majority vote with 13 nos and one abstention. Subsequently the HoPR’s Standing Committee on Law, Justice and Democracy said Commissioners who will be leading the National Dialogue Commission will be selected by the people of Ethiopia and their appointments will be approved by the Parliament. On 04 January, the HoPR issued a shortlist of 42 people out of 600 names who it said were nominated by the public to lead the Dialogue Commission.'], ['However, political parties have expressed reservations on the process by the Parliament and called for review. In a statement released on the same day, the opposition party, Balderas for True Democracy said that the Commission’s formation has “failed before its formation” because the government has “debilitated the National Dialogue Commission appointment” by abandoning inclusive process.'], ['On 14 February, Ethiopian Political Parties Joint Council (EPPJC), a coalition of more than 53 legally registered political parties in Ethiopia including the ruling PP, has issued a statement requesting the House of People’s Representatives (HoPR) to “temporarily halt” the ongoing proceedings to select the eleven commissioners to lead the planned National Dialogue Commission (NDC). It requested the parliament to resume the process in an “inclusive and trustworthy” manner. '], ['EPPJC’s statement was issued in the backdrop of the a statement by the Parliament announcing a shortlist of 42 people who it said were nominated by the public to lead the Dialogue Commission.'], ['Already, three main opposition parties: Oromo Federalist Congress (OFC), Oromo Liberation Front (OLF) and Ogaden National Liberation Front (ONLF) issued a statement saying the process of the nomination of Commissioners was not impartial [OFC], was unknown [OLF] and lacked representation [ONLF]. AS']]}, {'Date': 'February 22, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Works underway to accommodate Amhara IDPs to temporary locations: Addis Abeba Peace and Security bureau', 'news_paragraphs': [['Getahun Tsegaye @GetahunTsegay12'], ['Addis Abeba – The Addis Abeba City Peace and Security Bureau announced that Oromia Regional State and the National Disaster Prevention and Management Commission were jointly working to accommodate the IDPs in temporary locations. '], ['The statement was released shortly after Addis Standard published an in-depth investigation into the plight of hundreds of Amhara community members who are displaced from western Oromia regional state and are seeking refugee in Addis Abeba and Arsi zone in Oromia. The report is based on works compiled since the last week January this year, which followed the story of members of the Amhara community who sought refuge in two separate churches in the capital Addis Abeba. At the time a group of IDPs was sheltered in St. Estifanos Church in Kirkos sub-city, near the city’s Meskel square, while another group was sheltered in St. Michael’s church in Yeka sub-city. Addis Standard team visited both sites and spoke with the IDPs and community organizers before the story was published on 21 February. '], ['In-depth: Displaced by months-long violence, hundreds of #Amhara community members from western #Oromia seek refuge in #AddisAbeba & #Arsi zone https://t.co/BjjFgE8ziE @EteneshAb & @GetahunTsegay12 followed the story of hundreds of IDPs who fled for safety.This is their story:'], ['Shortly after the report was published, the city’s Peace and Security Bureau issued the statement saying that the “information circulating on social media about displaced people from Wollega\xa0was false.”'], ['However, the bureau admitted that displaced people were entering Addis Abeba as of late following the security crisis in Wollega, in western Oromia and said that it has been working with the concerned stakeholders to provide temporary support and lasting solutions to the displaced civilians ever since their arrival in to the city. It further stated that a discussion was held with the IDPs regarding where they can stay temporarily until they managed to return to their residence areas. AS']]}, {'Date': 'February 22, 2022', 'Header': 'News: National Dialogue Commission ‘failed before formation’ – Balderas Party', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Medihane Ekubamichael\xa0@Medihane\xa0'], ['Addis Abeba – The opposition party, Balderas for True Democracy, said that the National Dialogue Commission formation has “failed before its formation” because the government has “debilitated the National Dialogue Commission appointment” by abandoning inclusive process. In an emergency statement issued by the party on 21 February, shortly after lawmakers approved the list of 11 commissioners for the Dialogue Commission, the party stated that the appointments of the commissioners were approved without setting clear criteria for selecting the candidates.'], ['The statement identified the Federal Constitution, TPLF and the ruling Prosperity Party, as the main causes of the multi-faceted problems and wars that Ethiopia was facing at the moment; and further argued that a national dialogue was necessary to overcome these wars and conflicts. The Party recognized that Ethiopia was in the process of establishing its first National Dialogue Commission in its history.'], ['But Balderas recalled an earlier statement, where it demanded the Commission to be led by an independent body, if possible, to bring about a successful peace and to preserve national unity, and said all relevant parties should be involved and such a process should be led in an inclusive manner.'], ['The statement also underlined that a party that caused the problem may be part of the solution, but should never be the leader of the process. Moreover, the government has been isolating key stakeholders, including political parties, civic institutions, and religious institutions and has been running the process with disregard to such stakeholders.'], ['#Ethiopia:Despite reservations, calls for review from political parties, Parliament set to appoint National Dialogue Commissioners https://t.co/6O2k0nyEiY On 14 Feb.Political Parties Joint Council requested Parliament to “temporarily halt” the process & resume in inclusive manner'], ['referring to the House of People’s Representatives approval of the appointments of eleven commissioners, as an exercise without setting clear criteria for the selection the candidates. It accordingly expressed its fear that this situation could lead the country into more complicated problems.'], ['Balderas called on all Ethiopians to stand with it and object the process, which it referred to as “a plot full of conspiracies.”'], ['On February 21 the House of Peoples’ Representatives (HoPR) convened a special session and appointed eleven individuals who will become commissioners of the National Dialogue Commission.  It followed the approval on 29 December by the House of Proclamation No. 1265/2014 to establish the National Dialogue Commission (NDC) with majority vote with 13 nos and one abstention. Subsequently the HoPR’s Standing Committee on Law, Justice and Democracy said Commissioners who will be leading the National Dialogue Commission will be selected by the people of Ethiopia and their appointments will be approved by the Parliament. On 04 January, the HoPR issued a shortlist of 42 people out of 600 names who it said were nominated by the public to lead the Dialogue Commission.'], ['However, political parties have expressed reservations on the process by the Parliament and called for review. On 14 February, Ethiopian Political Parties Joint Council (EPPJC), a coalition of more than 53 legally registered political parties in Ethiopia including the ruling PP, has issued a statement requesting the House of People’s Representatives (HoPR) to “temporarily halt” the ongoing proceedings to select the eleven commissioners to lead the planned National Dialogue Commission (NDC). It requested the parliament to resume the process in an “inclusive and trustworthy” manner.'], ['EPPJC’s statement was issued in the backdrop of the a statement by the Parliament announcing a shortlist of 42 people who it said were nominated by the public to lead the Dialogue Commission.'], ['Already, three main opposition parties: Oromo Federalist Congress (OFC), Oromo Liberation Front (OLF) and Ogaden National Liberation Front (ONLF) issued a statement saying the process of the nomination of Commissioners was not impartial [OFC], was unknown [OLF] and lacked representation [ONLF]. AS']]}]
[{'Date': 'February 21, 2022', 'Header': 'In-depth analysis: Displaced by months-long violence, hundreds of Amhara community members from western Oromia seek refuge in Addis Abeba and Arsi zone', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Etennesh Abera @EteneshAB & '], ['Getahun Tsegaye @GetahunTsegay12'], [''], ['Addis Abeba- Displaced by months-long violence and persecution, hundreds of civilian members of the Amhara community who lived in Wollega zone, Oromia regional state, are seeking refuge in Addis Abeba; hundreds more have been made to relocate in Arsi zone, Oromia regional state, an investigation by Addis Standard reveals.'], ['Since the last week January this year, Addis Standard followed the story of members of the Amhara community who sought refuge in two separate churches in the capital Addis Abeba. At the time a group of IDPs was sheltered in St. Estifanos Church in Kirkos sub-city, near the city’s Meskel square, while another group was sheltered in St. Michael’s church in Yeka sub-city. Addis Standard team visited both sites and spoke with the IDPs and community organizers. '], ['This is their story:'], ['In the last week of January, a total of 107 IDPs, 30 of which are children arrived at St. Estifanos Church in Addis Abeba, Deutsche Welle Amharic reported. Some of the IDPs who arrived in the capital still don’t know the whereabouts of their families according to the report. The IDPs said that unidentified gunmen were indiscriminately attacking religious institutions and residents. The IDPs complained that their repeated pleas to the local authorities fell on deaf ears.'], ['Another interviewee said the attacks began in June last year and that Oromia special forces and national defense forces had been deployed in August the same year, but were not able to fend off the attacks. “When we saw the massacre of government forces, we couldn’t stay any longer,” he said.'], ['Addis Standard found out that the IDPs did not stay at the church for more than 3 days and their reason for coming to the capital was to “ask the Oromia regional government for a solution.” By the time Addis Standard visited the church, the IDPs were being loaded on a bus escorted by the police and officials from the city administration. The IDPs were very apprehensive about speaking to the media and the police were seen preventing Addis Abeba city residents who brought donations from talking to the IDPs. One of the IDPs who managed to speak to Addis Standard said “We are going back to where we came from.”'], [' “Our original home places were Homa Galesa and Qeru kebeles in Abe Dunguru Woreda of Horo Guduru Wollega zone. We fled attacks by OLA/Shanee in May 2021. Many were killed and injured while properties, including houses and churches, worth millions of ETB were destroyed” '], ['Desta, who spoke to Addis Stanard days after the 107 IPDs were taken away from St. Estifanos church by buses said that the group of IDPs came to Addis Abeba from the Arsi zone where they were staying since May last year. He introduced himself as the ‘representative’ of the IDPs and recalled that the 107 IDPs from the Arsi zone arrived at Estifanos church, Addis Ababa to report concerns regarding their displacement.'], ['“Our original home places were Homa Galesa and Qeru kebeles in Abe Dunguru Woreda of Horo Guduru Wollega zone. We fled attacks by OLA/Shanee in May 2021. Many were killed and injured while properties, including houses and churches, worth millions of ETB were destroyed. We, therefore, fled to the Arsi zone and settled in Merti Woreda. We stayed at St. Medhanialem church in Gologota kebele,” he narrated.'], ['Desta further told Addis Standard that a total of 419 IPDs currently settled in the Arsi zone are desperately seeking help in relation to their displacement. He stated that the Arsi zone administration didn’t provide them solutions prompting them to travel to Addis Abeba to express their concerns. ‘’Despite all the efforts we made, all governmental bodies paid a blind eye to our suffering,” he said. According to Desta, the security forces and the church [St. Estifanos] committee told the IDPs that their presence in the church would demand higher security surveillance in relation to the 35th AU Summit which was about to take place at the time. “We were told that the best option for us would be to return to the Arsi zone.”'], ['The community representative recalled how the residents of Addis Abeba and St. Estifanos church parishioners provided them food and necessary facilities during their stay in the church. He also mentioned two individuals whose last names he couldn’t remember, Zelalem and Taye. The two were helping the IDPs facilitate transportation and other related expenses. According to Desta, Memhir Zelalem was an individual philanthropist who gave them 22,200 ETB. He further detailed that Taye was the head of the security bureau of Kirkos Sub-city who set up the public buses for the IDPs. Addis Standard’s attempts to get hold of Kirkos Sub-city security bureau weren’t successful.'], ['Eyasu Mulugeta, another member of the IDP community said that neither the Oromia regional government nor any other government bodies offered them help for the past 9 months. “Gologota Medhanialem church and the local residents have greatly been helpful in providing food, clothes, and shelter,” he noted. Desta and Eyasu both said that the Oromo Liberation Army (referred to by government officials as Shanee) targeted them because of their identities.'], ['He further stated that the Oromia Disaster and Risk Management Commission had only helped them 30 quintals of wheat for the entire 419 IDPs during their nine months-long stay in Merti Woreda of the Arsi zone. “Very few of us, who were able to earn money from daily labor, rented a house while most of us are still in the church. The local residents have been providing us with food and clothes. With the exception of the 30 quintal wheat, governmental bodies have not helped us at all,” he complained.'], ['Reta Hailu, Martti Woreda’s Communication Office Head, told Addis Standard that the IDPs from Horo Guduru arrived in Gologota kebele in May and September of 2021. ” Martti Woreda officials coordinated local residents and concerned bodies to provide food, clothes, and shelter for the IPDs,” he said. Reta put the total number of IDPs at 80. When asked the number of IPDs that Addis Standard got a report of was 419, not 80, he admitted that he is freshly appointed to the position and asserted that the former report indicated a total of 80 residents. “I’ll make sure that the woreda officials will go to Gologota kebele to see and help them,” he pledged.'], ['Birara Getanew was born in South Gondar Taj Gayint woreda and has been a resident of the Sibu Sire woreda in the East Wollega zone since 1985. He remembers his life in Bekojima Kebele as “harmonious”. He explained that ethnically targeted attacks started the previous year. “Most of our relatives were killed, properties were destroyed,” he said.'], ['He went on to narrate an onslaught that started on the dawn of October 16 last year. “The OLA killed sixty-nine people and displaced many others. Some of us came to Addis Abeba on October 20 and ended up here just outside the compound of Yeka Michael Church.” Addis Standard asked Birrar how they were surviving since their arrival in the capital. “We sought help from the Yeka sub-city administration and the Mayor Adanech Abebe’s office but our pleas fell on deaf ears,” he continued, “Yeka Michael church hasn’t specifically offered any help nor did the Amhara regional government. Individuals and some volunteers, however, have been so supportive in providing food and clothes.” There were elders, women, and infants on the site. According to Birara there are a total of are 135 comprising 35 households.'], ['Tamiru Degefa Sew, who described himself as a ‘borderless volunteer’, told Addis Standard that he has been coordinating individual volunteers from Addis Abeba and abroad to help the IDPs “I am an individual borderless volunteer who is trying to facilitate aid from local residents and abroad in terms of food and clothes,” he added, “Even though the majority of them are Amharas, I met some Oromos among them.”'], ['Birara recalled, “While we were back in East Wollega, we alerted the regional government security forces and they came to our rescue. Of the deployed Oromia forces in June 2021, one Oromia Special force was killed while another policeman was injured. When the attack intensified, the deployed forces left the area and we were vulnerable. It is not the Oromo residents who inflicted the attacks. It is rather the armed OLF/Shane group. In fact, there were some Oromos who really tried to protect us from the attacks until they fell victims themselves. Some of them were displaced with their children and ended up here in Addis Abeba.”'], [' “Our properties and houses were turned to ashes. We’ve lost many of our loved ones. There are still many people being kidnapped. We demand a temporary shelter here in Addis Abeba until things get back to normal.” '], ['According to Birara, members of the Amhara community have been displaced from the 22 kebeles of Sibu Sire woreda. He speculated, “The woreda administration has left the area so the regional government must have known about the situation when official communication from the area discontinued.” He also accused local officials of proposing ideas to the community to go back to where they came from. “The area isn’t safe yet. The government knows very well that there is a security threat in the area. It has been a year since the road from Bahir Dar to Nekemt was blocked,” he continued, “We’re not going back home. Our properties and houses were turned to ashes. We’ve lost many of our loved ones. There are still many people being kidnapped. We demand a temporary shelter here in Addis Abeba until things get back to normal.”'], ['Like Birara, Kassayew Lemma, another IDP remembers the age-old harmonious co-existence of the Amhara and Oromo communities. “Oromos are our brothers and we never had any problems with them,” he said. Though Kassayew failed to provide details, he slammed the local administration for creating ‘mistrust’ among the two ethnic groups saying,” The problems emanate from the Oromia regional government officials on kebele to woreda levels.”'], ['Addis Standard spoke to the chairperson of the Amhara Youth Association, Yaregal Assefa who was visiting the IDPs. He stated that the association is based in Addis Abeba and mainly works on volunteer activities. “We’re providing them clothes, blankets, and food. We’re here to make their voices heard by concerned government bodies,” he said.'], [' When asked about the conditions of their displacement, most IDPs interviewed by Addis Standard at the time refused to disclose information including the name of kebeles and woredas they came from citing fear for their security. '], ['Yaregal complained that government officials and Yeka Michael Church were reluctant to provide help to the IDPs. “We called upon volunteers who are willing to provide food and clothes. The IDPs have not faced many problems when it comes to food and clothes. The biggest challenge is finding shelter. Despite some volunteers offering tents, we could not find an open place to set the tents up. We are demanding a piece of land from the city administration,” he added. Addis Standard’s repeated attempts to get hold of the Yeka sub-city administration were not successful. '], ['In December last year, Addis Standard reported that members of the Amhara community who fled violence in the East Wollega zone were sheltered in makeshift camps set up in a church compound and youth centers in Addis Abeba.'], ['When asked about the conditions of their displacement, most IDPs interviewed by Addis Standard at the time refused to disclose information including the name of kebeles and woredas they came from citing fear for their security. “We are afraid of being attacked and we don’t want to go back to where we came from,” they said.'], ['Likewise, the head of Abune Aregawi Church in Zenebework area, Kolfe Keranio sub-city told Addis Standard about displaced people from the East Wollega zone who were said to be sheltered in the compounds of the church, “About 120 IDPs of Amhara ethnic background were sheltered in the church for two weeks. With the help of the federal government, Oromia regional government, and the Amhara regional government, they were relocated to other places in the East Wollega zone.”'], ['A report by the Ethiopian Human Rights Commission (EHRC) revealed the killing and displacement of the residents of Gida Kiramu woreda in the East Wollege zone. The report cited the residents as saying the Oromo Liberation Army, referred to by government officials as Shanee killed civilians. The commission also noted that members of the Amhara community killed 60 people in retaliation. AS']]}, {'Date': 'February 21, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Despite reservations, calls for review from political parties, Parliament set to appoint National Dialogue Commissioners today', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba: The House of Peoples’ Representatives convene in a special session today to appoint eleven individuals who will become commissioners of the National Dialogue Commission. '], ['This follows the approval on 29 December by the House of Proclamation No. 1265/2014 to establish the National Dialogue Commission (NDC) with majority vote with 13 nos and one abstention. Subsequently the HoPR’s Standing Committee on Law, Justice and Democracy said Commissioners who will be leading the National Dialogue Commission will be selected by the people of Ethiopia and their appointments will be approved by the Parliament. On 04 January, the HoPR issued a shortlist of 42 people out of 600 names who it said were nominated by the public to lead the Dialogue Commission.'], ['However, political parties have expressed reservations on the process by the Parliament and called for review. On 14 February, Ethiopian Political Parties Joint Council (EPPJC), a coalition of more than 53 legally registered political parties in Ethiopia including the ruling PP, has issued a statement requesting the House of People’s Representatives (HoPR) to “temporarily halt” the ongoing proceedings to select the eleven commissioners to lead the planned National Dialogue Commission (NDC). It requested the parliament to resume the process in an “inclusive and trustworthy” manner. '], ['EPPJC’s statement was issued in the backdrop of the a statement by the Parliament announcing a shortlist of 42 people who it said were nominated by the public to lead the Dialogue Commission.'], ['Already, three main opposition parties: Oromo Federalist Congress (OFC), Oromo Liberation Front (OLF) and Ogaden National Liberation Front (ONLF) issued a statement saying the process of the nomination of Commissioners was not impartial [OFC], was unknown [OLF] and lacked representation [ONLF].'], ['State media reported today that after considering the input from the community, the Standing Committee has proposed nominate the following candidates to be the eleven commissioners:  '], ['1. Professor Mesfin Araya, 2. Mrs. Hirut Gebreselassie, 3. Dr. Tegegne Work Getu, 4. Ambassador Dr. Ayrorit Mohammed, 5. Mrs. Blen Gebremedhin, 6. Dr. Yonas Adaye, 7. Ato Zegeye Asfaw, 8. Ato Melaku Woldemariam, 9. Ambassador Mahamoud Drir, 10. Mr. Mulugeta Ago, and 11. Dr. Ambaye Ogato. AS ']]}, {'Date': 'February 19, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Ten members of one family killed in heavy machine gun attack in Afar state', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba,  – Humo Ibrahim, a resident of the Afar region bordering Tigray, where the ongoing fighting in northern Ethiopia has escalated, is deeply saddened by the loss of his wife and five children in a recent military attack. Residents and volunteers from the area told BBC Amharic that 10 members of a single family were killed and 13 others were injured in a heavy gun battle on Tuesday night, 15 February. Humo and his ten family who were killed in the attack were living in Ada, a small town in the Afar regional state.'], [' The father, who lost his entire family, is in a state of shock. “He is neither eating nor been able to cope with the sudden catastrophe. Religious leaders are comforting him”  '], ['The BBC Amharic quoted Yassin Kedir, a close relative of Humo and a resident of Semera, the capital of Afar region, that the town was located 15 kilometers from Berhale. He also said that all relatives of the victims’ family were in deep mourning. It was indicated that among the family members fleeing the attack were five children, a mother, a grandmother, a mother’s brother, and a niece.'], ['Humo’s had previously been displaced and was able to save his family. The father, who lost his entire family, is in a state of shock. “He is neither eating nor been able to cope with the sudden catastrophe. Religious leaders are comforting him,” Yassin said.'], ['According to the media efforts made to contact Homo Ibrahim remained futile, and his relatives say he is not speaking to anyone because of his grief. It was on the next day, he was informed of the deaths of the family members, as heavy fighting was still going on in the area and there was no telephone or transportation service.\xa0'], ['According to Yassin, the information about the dead came from the wounded and displaced, while 13 others injured in the attack are being treated at Dubti Hospital. He described the area as a war zone, adding that the attack happened when the victims and other residents were fleeing the fighting on their way from Berhale to a desert area called Dodom. The attack took place about five kilometers from the town of Ada, just a short distance from a river known as Ala. Witnesses say it around a well-known hot spring Godaya, located between Tigray and Afar, and where people go to for healing.“The attack may have taken place while they were resting,” Yassin speculates. “It was carried out with heavy artillery fire. Some of the wounded lost their limbs,” he said, adding that the victims were buried at the scene.'], ['After the breakout of the war\xa0in Tigray and the subsequent spread of conflicts to the Afar and Amhara regions, it seemed to have subsided for a while, but hostilities have been ongoing for some time in the areas bordering Afar and Tigray.'], ['Heavy weapon assisted fighting is taking place in the Afar region at the moment, with regional and federal authorities blaming the TPLF forces for the attacks. The Afar Regional State said in a statement released two weeks ago that the aim of Tigrayan forces’ attack was to seize control of the Ethio-Djibouti corridor by capturing Sardo.'], ['The report recalled that that Tigrayan forces had taken control of Abala, Magalle, Erebti, Koneba and Berahle woredas. Officials in the Afar region told the media a week ago that more than 350,000 people had been displaced by the fighting in the region.\xa0'], ['According to Sadak, a volunteer who is assisting and coordinating residents and displaced people in the war zones, the war is still intensifying and the number of displaced people is increasing. “Those in Afdera and Kuri woredas are able to get out, but those who couldn’t get out are still in the war zone,” said the volunteer. The volunteer also said that there were mothers in the desert who had given birth without help and that women, including infants, were in dire circumstances.'], ['Tigrayan authorities had previously admitted entering parts of Afar and controls certain areas in what they said was a response to repeated attacks by Afar special forces and Eritrean army.  Residents said the fighting in Afar State did not involve the federal army and it was between Afar Special Forces and Tigrayan forces; witnesses say due to firepower imbalances, heavy attacks were meted out “on the people”. '], ['The federal government has not yet commented on the war in the Afar region; Earlier, the National Security Council said it would take necessary actions against the attacks from the TPLF. AS']]}, {'Date': 'February 19, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Germany grants €20 m to FAO’s drought response in Ethiopia Kenya and Somalia', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – Germany is providing assistance to the tune of 20 million Euro via the United Nations in order to mitigate the suffering from the ongoing severe drought in parts of Ethiopia, Kenya and Somalia. '], ['Following a historic drought, the United Nations estimates that around 13 million people are at risk from hunger. Ethiopia is experiencing a prolonged drought after three consecutive failed rainy seasons since late 2020 affecting 6.8 million people living in Oromia, SNNP, Southwest and Somali regional state, several areas in southern and southeastern Ethiopia, including in the regions of Somali (10 zones), Oromia (8 zones), Southwest (1 zone) and Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples – SNNP (7 zones). People living in these same areas have barely managed to recuperate from the severe drought in 2017 to witness again such harsh conditions, the first signs of which started appearing towards the end of 2020In Somalia, an estimated 1.4 million people could be displaced due to the current drought and 7.7 million, half the population, is in need of humanitarian assistance. Scarcely any rain has fallen in several regions in the Horn of Africa since late 2020.'], ['Germany is providing the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) with 20 million euro to ensure that people in areas of particular risk from hunger can receive swift assistance. These funds are to be used, among other things, to provide more than 50,000 people in Somalia with feed for their livestock. In Ethiopia, 26 dried up watering holes are to be restored. In Kenya, 15,000 families are to receive humanitarian cash transfers. In parts of the three countries, precipitation has decreased by up to 70 percent. Some regions have even sufferedtheir lowest rainfall of all time.'], ['Nomadic herders and stockbreeders are facing increasing difficulties. Countless families have lost their sole source of income. As the lack of rain also causes pastureland to dry up, nomadic herders and their animals are increasingly turning to arable land. Agriculturally-viable land is decreasing. Wells and irrigation systems are drying up. New conflicts are arising as a result of the competition for the shrinking number of fields, grazing land and watering holes. The consequences of armed conflicts in Ethiopia and Somalia as well as a locust plaguein 2020 have aggravated the situation further.'], ['“This funding demonstrates the German Government’s fundamental approach to humanitarian assistance. Its aim is to provide help as fast and as anticipatory as possible in order to avoid or minimize damage. The German Government has expanded its humanitarian assistance in Africa in the last few years. In 2021, it made available a total of 564 million Euro for assistance on the African continent,” a statement from the German embassy in Addis Abeba said. AS/Dispatch']]}, {'Date': 'February 18, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Sheger Bakery ceases production, leaves city’s growing low-income families in despair', 'news_paragraphs': [['\xa0\xa0By Mahlet Fasil @MahletFasil'], ['Addis Abeba – Barely a year and half after its much-hailed inauguration, Sheger Bakery, a Bakery which was expected to cater millions in Addis Abeba with subsidized and consistent bread supply, has ceased production, leaving the city’s growing number of low income families in despair.   '], ['Consumers who spoke to Addis Standard, said that although Sheger Bakery had never fully addressed the problem associated with price and break supply, especially to the city’s low-income families, it has contributed significantly to the community. The grinding halt in the supply of bread has now affected millions. '], ['Zenebech Kelem Work, a customer, said that the situation\xa0has a profound effect on her. “I used to get up in the morning to buy the bread for my children because the price was very low. 1 Birr and\xa0 20 cents was the price of one loaf of bread, whereas in private bakeries it costs up to 3 Birr and 50 cents or more. This is the only thing the government has provided for the low-income community but now it stopped working. The customers were almost entirely part of the low-income residents of the city,” she told Addis Standard. '], ['Andargachew, a day laborer living in the city, is another customer left in despair. “I always line up to buy the bread. Because a single Injera [a sour flat Ethiopian bread] costs 10 ETB. I always take my lunch with bread to my work. Be it pastries or regular shops, they sell Injera at a higher price. Sheger bread was very important for the low-income community and should not have stopped operating,” he said. '], [' “This is the only thing the government has provided for the low-income community but now it stopped working. The customers were almost entirely part of the low-income residents of the city,” '], ['Built by MIDROC Ethiopia, which is owned by the Ethio-Saudi billionaire, Sheikh Mohammed Hussien Al Amoudi, at a cost of 900 million birr, this state-of-the-art bakery was expected to produce 1.8 million loaves of bread a day and 80,000 per hour, according to a statement distributed at its inauguration back in June 2020.  '], ['“The Sheger Bakery, which took 10 months from conception to finalization, is symbolic of our path to prosperity. Producing 80,000 pieces of bread per hour, availing it at affordable prices will contribute to food security in Addis Abeba and the surrounding cities,” Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed hailed the concept at the inauguration of the Bakery, which was also attended by senior city administration officials, including then deputy mayor Takele Uma, who was credited for initiating the concept. '], ['But already, as far back as January 2021, just six months into its inauguration, the Bakery had stated that it had lost 70 million birr in the first five months alone, and attributed the loss to the price hikes and lack of inputs. However, despite the challenges, the Bakery was able to produce between 700,000 to 800,000 loaves of bread per day and was distributing its products to city residents through more than 400 retail shops located in and around Addis Abeba, including from converted city buses. '], ['Abdulrahman Ahmedin, Director of Corporate Communication and Promotion, complained at the time that the price of the bread Sheger Bakery was providing to its costumers had never matched the price of the inputs it needed for the procurement of wheat and the production process. '], ['It was stated that Addis Abeba City Administration and Sheger Bakery and Flour Factory have jointly agreed to sale the products at reasonable prices. Speaking to party affiliated FanaBC, Addis Abeba Trade Bureau Head, Adam Nur, admitted that the Bakery has ceased production and supply, said that the office was evaluating a question raised in relation to input price hikes. He said that the City Administration was subsidizing the Bakery to a tune of 309 million birr annually. Sheger Bakery was covering 50% of the expenses. The City Administration is  working to alleviate the problem to see Sheger Bakery resume its works. Mekonnen Teshome, MIDROC investment Group Communication and Advertising Director, on his part said that shortage of input has forced the Bakery to halt production and that he hoped that collaboration with relevant stakeholders will see the return of production very soon.   '], ['Addis Standard’s attempts to contact both MIDROC Ethiopia and Addis Ababa City Administration for further explanations were to no avail. AS']]}]
[{'Date': 'February 14, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Somali regional govt accuses ‘anti-peace forces’ of attempting  coup, colliding with terrorist organizations to destabilize region', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Bileh Jelan @BilehJelan'], ['Addis Abeba – Following reports of deployment of federal security forces in Jigjiga, capital of Somali regional state, the regional government released a statement accusing what it described as “anti-peace forces” of attempting to overthrow the regional government by force and colliding with terrorist organizations to destabilize the region.\xa0'], ['Just like wars have war profiteers, it seems droughts also have drought profiteers who aspire to make money out of people’s misery. Stories about the drought need to be factual and altruistic. We will not allow drought profiteers to drive our response strategy.'], ['The statement released on 13 February discussed the efforts the regional state government was exerting to address the drought that is ravaging different parts of the region.\xa0It said that “800 million birr has been allocated for response since the beginning of the drought to assist people and livestock.\xa0 At the same time, the regional government has focused on alleviating the drought by providing a variety of nutrients, fodder and water, as well as medicines to prevent diseases.”\xa0'], ['However, the statement admits that “given the scale and extent of the drought, it was not enough. Many locals and international media outlets have been covering the drought in East Africa since the beginning of the drought,” it said, adding that “among those who oversaw our efforts are President Sahlework Zewde, Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed, UN Deputy Secretary-General Amina Mohammed and many others, all of whom praised the regional government’s efforts to reverse the drought.”\xa0'], [' Over the period of last week alone, the regional government has provided 30,000 quintals of nutritious food and cereals to 46 woredas, providing assistance to more than 70,351 households in 10 drought-affected areas. In addition, 200 million birr worth of food items have been distributed to more than 38,978 households, the statement said.  \xa0'], [' “Anti-peace forces\xa0have been plotting to overthrow the regional government. They tried to disrupt the peace by galvanizing the people, destabilizing the region and seizing power by force.”\xa0 '], ['Regardless of these efforts by the regional government, it said that “anti peace forces” were attempting to overthrow the elected government. “Anti-peace forces\xa0have been plotting to overthrow the regional government. They tried to disrupt the peace by galvanizing the people, destabilizing the region and seizing power by force.”\xa0'], ['The Prosperity Party was elected in the region in the last general elections, the statement said, and accused the unidentified forces of attempting to reverse the results of the elections.  “In the midst of the ongoing efforts of the Somali Regional State government and people to reverse the drought, these forces plotted to destabilize the region and we call on all Ethiopians to help us restore order.”\xa0'], ['Addressing regional security forces and media, the statement read, “We call on our security forces, who are working tirelessly for peace in the region, to reaffirm their commitment to the peace and stability of our region, which has been ensured mainly by your efforts and strength. We also call on the media to combat these attempts to spread disinformation propagated by those who wish to destabilize the region.’ '], ['It also called on continued support from investors, members of the Ethio-Somali diaspora and business community, humanitarian organizations, and the people of the region. “We reiterate that we will work with all humanitarian actors to address this natural disaster, and we repeat that the Somali Regional State Government will take measures against those who use this disaster for their political agenda.”\xa0'], ['This comes amid reports of fractions within the ruling Prosperity Party branch in the region and in the backdrop of continued criticism by the region’s opposition on the regional government’s response to the drought. In a joint statement released on 10 February, The Ogaden National Liberation Front (ONLF) and Congress for Somali Cause (CSC), a newly formed opposition group, said that “the current situation of the region, which leaves millions to deal with crippling famine, hunger, and malnutrition, proves the inability of the government to act responsibly, acknowledge the extent of the problem and invest in the right areas and programs.” '], ['#Ethiopia:@ONLFofficial, @SomaliCause criticize inadequate response to severe drought, crackdown on dissidents in #Somali State https://t.co/HSzJeKhrzL They also criticized the selection of Amb.Mohamud Dirir "by Addis Abeba to represent Somalis" in the planned national dialogue'], ['The joint statement further accused the regional government that “although the drought has already caused significant loss of human lives (including children) and destroyed asset and livelihoods, the measures employed so far by the federal and local government are, not only ineffective to deliver the lifesaving services, but have exposed the carelessness and sloppiness of the state. Instead of drawing attention the sense of urgency needed in tackling the drought, the Ethiopian federal leaders minimize the critical situation and danger the Somali people are facing in regard to the drought when they visit the Somali state.”'], ['#ONLF condemns the illigal detention of desenting politicians & youth who are being denied freedom of expression, the right of association & the right to critizise the failed policies of the #Somalistate gov in regard to basic services & the mismanaged draught. #Ethiopia'], ['Similarly ONLF and activists are complaining about a fresh wave of crackdown on dissents in the region. The ONLF said last week through its social media that it condemned the “illegal detention of dissenting politicians and youth who are being denied freedom of expression, the right of association and the right to criticize the failed policies of the Somali state government in regard to basic services and the mismanaged drought.”\xa0AS']]}, {'Date': 'February 11, 2022', 'Header': 'News: OFC decries ‘appalling’, ‘endless suffering’ of Ethiopians in Saudi detention facilities', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – In a statement released yesterday, opposition party, Oromo Federalist Congress (OFC), decried the “endless suffering” of thousands of Ethiopian nationals in detention facilities in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and said it was “appalling.”  OFC said that at the heart of the suffering was the fact that “none of the development policies formulated in our country are participatory and effective; and even if they are applied to a certain extent, it is to fulfill the interests of certain individuals and groups and do not meet the needs of our people.”  '], ['An investigation by Addis Standard into the conditions of Ethiopians detained in Saudi Arabia’s prisons revealed that a crackdown on illegal migrants has targeted many Ethiopians. A subsequent report revealed that testimonies offered via multiple calls from detainees inside the kingdom’s detention facilities continued. '], ['According to the detainees, nursing mothers, infants, and pregnant women continued suffering in these facilities without sufficient food, medicine, and a proper place to sleep.  The detainees kept urging the Ethiopian government to intervene and repeatedly complained about Ethiopian Embassy officials in KSA and Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MoFA) officials of abandoning their responsibilities and ignoring their pleas to rescue them.   '], ['  “While we posses large tracts of land and abundant natural resources, citizens are at risk of persecution for seeking the betterment of themselves and their families,” '], ['In its statement, the OFC said that although Ethiopia is praised for registering a robust economic growth, there has been no attempt to address poor people’s basic need; instead, what is evident is “the fact that the wealth of the few is pilling up.”  “While we posses large tracts of land and abundant natural resources, citizens are at risk of persecution for seeking the betterment of themselves and their families,” OFC said and lamented that because “our country’s political leadership is distorted no small number of people are fleeing the country.”  In the last 30 years alone, citizens have been forced to flee to foreign lands, especially to Arab countries, where they have been exposed to desserts, extortion, and wild beasts. '], ['“The plight of young people killed on the shores of Libya and the suffering as a result of long-term detention of individuals in Saudi Arabia, most recently, the status of thousands detained in several detention facilities is particularly appalling,” OFC said. Many people are calling the attention of the government and “it is not uncommon for people to say that the government should save the lives of these people. OFC supports this idea,” the party said.  '], ['Nebiyu Sirak, a journalist and a community advocate who lived and was active in Saudi Arabia recently told Addis Standard that more than half a million Ethiopians are estimated to be living in Saudi Arabia both legally and illegally of which more than 100,000 of them are now suffering in the kingdom’s prisons.  “Outside the prison, an estimated 200,000 Ethiopian migrants are in danger,” Nebiyu said and spoke about the year-long government initiative that resulted in the return of more than 42,000 undocumented migrants. But he argued that none of these initiatives provided a lasting solution. “We know of different initiatives including sending a delegation to Saudi from MoFA, but it remains a fact that the government failed at stopping the harassment and sufferings of its citizens. The large-scale crackdown continued and remaining citizens remain under the threat of harassment and abuse.”  AS']]}, {'Date': 'February 10, 2022', 'Header': 'News: ONLF, Congress for Somali Cause criticize inadequate response to severe drought, crackdown on dissidents in Somali State', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – A senior team led by Abdirahman Mahdi, Chairman of the opposition Oganden National Liberation Front (ONLF), met with members of the Congress for Somali Cause (CSC), led by Ahmed Mohammed Hassan (Baje) in Nairobi and “discussed the current crisis in Ethiopia and the Somali State,” according to a joint press statement sent to Addis Standard. “The two delegates extensively deliberated on the dire situation that all peoples in Ethiopia are facing, in particular, the looming catastrophe the Somali people are facing regarding the unfolding famine in the Somali state and the narrowing of the political space in the Somali state, which so far has the most peaceful area in the Horn of Africa,” the statement reads. '], ['A two-day meeting bn @ONLFofficial& the @SomaliCause has kicked off in Nairobi, Kenya today. The summit will focus on uniting #Somali political forces, ways to adv. our interests, current political instability & the ravaging drought in #Somaliregion & the latest in HoA affairs. pic.twitter.com/wY4uz6sviy'], ['The discussion reflected on the current drought in Somali region which they said was is the “worst drought in decades” that is killing livestock and creating a dire humanitarian crisis. “Since May last year, much of the region has received less than 30 percent of normal rainfall, wiping out pastures and worsening food and water shortages. Indeed, drought is a slow onset, creeping natural hazard and there is often more time to plan and implement an appropriate response. Although, drought is a natural phenomenon, it never causes famine, unless there are other factors, such bad (or lack of) governance, poor public policies, or misplaced priorities,” the joint statement further reads.  '], ['Therefore, the delegates from the two sides said that “the current situation of the region, which leaves millions to deal with crippling famine, hunger, and malnutrition, proves the inability of the government to act responsibly, acknowledge the extent of the problem and invest in the right areas and programs. Although, the drought has already caused significant loss of human lives (including children) and destroyed asset and livelihoods, the measures employed so far by the federal and local government are, not only ineffective to deliver the lifesaving services, but have exposed the carelessness and sloppiness of the state. Instead of drawing attention the sense of urgency needed in tackling the drought, the Ethiopian federal leaders minimize the critical situation and danger the Somali people are facing in regard to the drought when they visit the Somali state.”'], ['The joint press statement said the parties sympathize with the victims, “who lost their loved ones and whose livelihoods have been destroyed, we are condemning the gross negligence and dismissal of the reality on the ground by the administration. The parties are urging the federal and regional governments to stop denying the facts, reverse course and act responsibly before many more lives have been lost.”'], ['With regard to Ethiopia’s planned national dialogue, which the joint statement referred to as “the already floundering national dialogue”, the parties said that “the fact that Ambassador Mohamud Dirir (the least credible Somali politician) is being selected by Addis Abeba to represent Somalis in the forums, without appropriately consulting key Somali stakeholders including the local representatives of the now divided Prosperity Party, illustrates the depth and scale of political, economic and social marginalization that Somalis have been experiencing for decades, as we firmly believe that the same is true in all other regional state. Thus, such approach that the government has adopted, will render the spirit of the dialogue invalid and will never serve the interest of all peoples in Ethiopia.”'], ['“We, therefore urge the government to appreciate the scale of the challenge that Ethiopia is facing and devise measures that can bring the communities, torn apart by devastating conflicts and distrust, together. More importantly, the government must realize, that without cessation of hostilities in all parts of Ethiopia, and exclusion of key stakeholders, there will be no mindful dialogue that can bring a lasting peace to this part of the world.”'], ['The two parties also condemn “the recent illegal detention of political leaders and youth in the Somali state and the increasing narrowing of political space and denial of the basic democratic right of freedom of expression and right of assembly that the current Somali state government is implementing, which is in against the spirit of democratic change that was promised in 2018 after changing the previous regime.”'], ['Finally, the two parties agreed to continue cooperating on advocating for the democratic rights of the people and highlighting the the effect of the impending famine in the Somali state. Dispatch/AS '], ['']]}, {'Date': 'February 10, 2022', 'Header': 'Analysis: “Hundreds” killed, thousands displaced in recurring armed attacks in Amaro Special Wereda, Southern region; latest attack leaves three dead, four injured', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Standard Staff '], ['Addis Abeba – In a lengthy statement issued yesterday, the Amaro Special Woreda Communication Bureau said years-long recurring armed attacks againist civilians living in various districts of Amaro Special Woreda in Southern Nations, Nationalities and People’s Region (SNNPR) claimed the lives of “hundreds” and displaced some 44,202 people. “Residents from two kebeles [districts in towns] completely, and 18 Kebelles partially were also separated from their homes and properties.”  '], ['According to Sergeant Selassie Shilo, Peace and Security Office head of Amaro Special Wereda, three people were killed and four others were injured in the latest attack two days ago when armed men opened fire on FSR Isuzu truck that was traveling en route from Dilla to Amaro. Three trucks were targeted by the attackers.  '], ['  Civilians in Amaro have been subjected to repeated armed attacks in the past few years. In March 2021 Dagnachew Echela, the Woreda’s head of Prosperity Party office was killed along with six others  '], ['The attack took place at around 10: 00 AM local time in Gelana Woreda, in an area called Ersha Ano in West Guji Zone, Oromia Regional State, according to the head of the Office of Peace and Security. The driver of one truck and his assistant were among the three people killed in the attack; and four other passengers of a second truck were also shot and wounded, the official said.  All three vehicles that were attacked were carrying an unknown number of people when they left Dilla town. The passengers jumped off the vehicles and ran to nearby forests for their safety and motor-bikers rescued the injured and transported them to Amaro hospital.  In Addition to the killing, the armed attackers also completely looted various goods belonging to traders who were traveling on the vehicles. The official blamed the robbery on nearby residents of Galana Wereda and Ejersa Kebele who he accused of not saving the victims and instead “took part in the robbery.” The bodies of the three victims were brought to Amaro Kelle town for burial on February 08. He said the injured are being treated at medical facilities.  '], ['#Ethiopia: Three civilians killed, two injured and more than 6,000 displaced in latest attack in #Amaro Special Wereda in #SNNPRS https://t.co/mI2uGe03zE Similar attacks since Feb. this year resulted in the killing of 22 civilian, injuring of 18 & the displacement of thousands. pic.twitter.com/ZrrTA0f9OT'], ['The month of January has seen “numerous attacks” against civilians’ lives and properties, the statement said.  The statement detailed that “on 18 January four people were seriously injured in an attack on FSR Isuzu truck traveling from Amaro to Dilla; two farmers were killed In Dano kebelle when a similar attack took place on 01 February; several cattle from Yero, Dorbade, Jalo, Dano, Zokesa, Gamule kebeles were also looted by Guji militants.”   '], [' In April 2021, armed groups killed at least 12 civilians, injured eight and left more than 11, 000, mainly the local Koore community, internally displaced. '], ['“Hundreds of people have been killed so far in these areas; and 44,202 people have been displaced from their respective kebeles, with residents of two kebeles completely, and residents of 18 Kebelles partially separated from their homes and properties,” the statement said.  '], ['Amaro Special Woreda, home to the Koore community, “has been under constant attack by armed groups” for the last six years particularly in the kebelles and Weredas neighboring Gelana and Suro Barguda Weredas of West Guji zone, Oromia regional state.  “The most frequent attackers of our communities are the anti-peace forces hiding inside the Guji community,” Sergeant Selassie said, adding the West Guji Zone and its sub-district administrations had so far reported the attacks on the Koore community and said they were being carried out by “Shene”, the name authorities use to refer to Oromo Liberation Army (OLA). '], [' In April 2021, armed groups killed at least 12 civilians, injured eight and left more than 11, 000, mainly the local Koore community, internally displaced. In March of the same year Dagnachew Echela, the Woreda’s head of Prosperity Party office, was killed along with six others at a meeting between officials of the neighboring kebeles in west Gujii zone and Amaro Special Woreda. Local officials blamed the killing both on “unspecified armed groups” and the OLA rebels. '], ['The Communication Bureau of the Amaro Special Woreda blamed the recurrent violence, deaths and displacements of the Koore community on joint attacks mounted by armed groups who are attempting to change the defunct Segen Area People’s Zone “into Gumayde Special Wereda”, and “Guji armed groups illegally operating inside the Nech Sar National Park.”'], ['Amaro Special Wereda was one of the Weredas along with Konso Special Wereda, Ale, Burji, and Derashe Weredas in SNNPRS, which were regrouped to establish the Segen Area People’s Zone in 2011. The decision has led to multiple protests including the more sustained and organized Konso protests. '], [' Community activists however blame OLA rebel groups from the neighboring West Guji zone for the attacks and subsequent displacement of civilians.  '], ['The demand by Konso to secede from Segen Area People’s Zone and become a Zone on its own, which began in 2014, was accepted and approved by then SNNPRS Council in 2018. The decision also saw the remaining four Woredas: Amaro, Derashe, Ale and Burji to become separate woredas on their own, leading to the defunct Segen Area People’s Zone and the Segen City Administration, which had 17 Kebeles.  '], ['Community activists however blame OLA rebel groups from the neighboring West Guji zone for the attacks and subsequent displacement of civilians.   '], ['In the latest statement, Sergeant Selassie insisted that the attacks were carried out by armed groups, and that most of the harassment were carried out by “armed gangs engaged in robbery.” Prior to the latest attack, “armed group of robbers entered the Amaro region at night and started looting cattle; a shootout ensued and one person was killed, following that the robbers waited on the road and killed the traders and looted their properties.”  '], [' “This shows that the murderers and the robbers are hiding inside the community,”  Sergeant Selassie said, adding that legal actions were taken against seven individuals who looted cattle in Amaro, and the action has led to West Guji zone officials to investigate to know those who are engaged in robbery within the administration.  '], ['Repeated attempts by local officials of Amaro Special Wereda, together with officials from West Guji zone, Gelana and Suro Weredas to root out the practice, including by organizing peace conferences, yielded no result so far, Sergeant Selassie said. He called on the federal government to intervene to find a lasting solution to the crisis. AS  ']]}, {'Date': 'February 9, 2022', 'Header': 'News: UN deputy chief encourages Ethiopia gov’t to have peace talk with “all stakeholders to end ongoing human atrocities”', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Getahun Tsegaye @GetahunTsegay12'], ['Addis Abeba – Amina Mohammed, Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations said she “encourage the federal government to hold peace talks with all the stakeholders to end the ongoing human atrocities.” The UN deputy chief said this in a short press briefing she gave to local journalists at Addis Abeba Bole International Airport this afternoon.  '], ['Ms. Amina ended her visit to Ethiopia which started on 05 February. She also attended, on behalf of the Secretary-General, the 35th ordinary session of the Assembly of the African Union. '], ['During her stay, she visited the three regional states devastated by Ethiopia’s ongoing civil war and interacted with a range of stakeholders, including Debretsion Gebremichael (PhD), the leader of Tigray state. (see picture) '], ['“I have been to the three regions: Afar, Amhara, and Tigray. I met the TPLF and the other regional leaders. I encourage the federal government to hold peace talks with all the stakeholders to end the ongoing human atrocities,: she told reporters, adding that “children and women have been most vulnerable to the ongoing conflict.”  '], ['Ms. Amina’s visiti came in the heels of the UN Secretary General António Guterres’ latest call for cessation of hostilities to end Ethiopia’s 15 months-old civil war. Shortly before his departure to attend the Winter Olympic Games Beijing 2022 on 01 February, the UN Chief has issued yet another appeal to end hostilities. In his appeal, the Secretary-General invoked the tradition of the Olympic Truce”, which he said “has called on all parties, everywhere, to stop hostilities throughout the course of Games.”'], ['Mr. Guterres’ last statement on Ethiopia was issued on on Janurary 19 in which he said he had “a telephone conversation” with the African Union High Representative for the Horn of Africa, Olusegun Obasanjo, “to exchange views with him on the conflict in Ethiopia following his latest visit to Addis Abeba and Mekelle, the capital of the regional state of Tigray.”'], ['He said he was “delighted that after over a year of armed conflict which has affected millions of people across Ethiopia and the rest of the region, there is now a demonstrable effort to make peace.”'], ['However, there has been no tangible progress since then and Ethiopian officials have continued denying that there were talks to end hostilities. But on January 29, the leader of Tigray state, Debretsion Gebremichael (PhD), has told the BBC that “there are encouraging signs” in the peace negotiations to end civil war.'], ['However, the Ethiopian government has not publicly acknowledged the presence of talks with authorities in Tigray. AS ']]}]
[{'Date': 'February 9, 2022', 'Header': 'News: House Foreign Affairs Committee passes bipartisan bill requiring US gov’t to ‘take additional measures to end brutal civil war in Ethiopia’', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – The House Foreign Affairs Committee has on February 09 passed a bipartisan bill introduced by Representatives Tom Malinowski (D-NJ) and Young Kim (R-CA) that requires the administration to take additional measures to seek an end to the brutal civil war in Ethiopia.'], ['The\xa0Ethiopia Stabilization, Peace, and Democracy Act, co-sponsored by Committee Chairman Gregory Meeks and Ranking Member Michael McCaul, authorizes sanctions against those who are perpetuating the conflict and suspends security and financial assistance to the Ethiopian government until humanitarian and human rights conditions are met. The war in Ethiopia has dragged on now for 15 months with devastating consequences for civilians. The United Nations has documented war crimes, crimes against humanity, and possible genocide. Find\xa0the text of the bill\xa0here.'], ['Specifically the bill would:\xa0'], ['“The war in Ethiopia has created one of the worst humanitarian crises in the world, and all the combatants, along with their foreign backers, are responsible for horrific abuses of basic human rights,”\xa0said Representative Malinowski (NJ-07). “Today, Congress is coming together to say that the conflict must end, and to hold accountable all those responsible for perpetuating it.”'], ['“The brutal conflict in Ethiopia has continued to fuel a destructive cycle of violence that has killed\u202fand displaced\u202fthousands, with millions more facing starvation and other dire humanitarian crises,”\u202fsaid Representative Young Kim (CA-39).\u202f“I’m proud to help lead the Ethiopia Stabilization, Peace and Democracy Act to authorize\u202ftargeted sanctions against those expanding the conflict and ensure transparent delivery of humanitarian aid. I thank Rep. Malinowski for joining me in this effort and our Foreign Affairs Committee colleagues for their support.”\xa0 Dispatch ']]}, {'Date': 'February 8, 2022', 'Header': '#EthiopiaDrought in numbers: 6.8 million people in 26 zones affected, more than 260,000 livestock deaths registered in four regions', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – Ethiopia is experiencing a prolonged drought after three consecutive failed rainy seasons since late 2020 affecting 6.8 million people living in Oromia, SNNP, Southwest and Somali: several areas in southern and southeastern Ethiopia, including in the regions of Somali (10 zones), Oromia (8 zones), Southwest (1 zone) and Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples – SNNP (7 zones). People living in these same areas have barely managed to recuperate from the severe drought in 2017 to witness again such harsh conditions, the first signs of which started appearing towards the end of 2020. The conditions continued to worsen with the successive failed seasons in 2021. The next season in March/April 2022 might also be well below normal, making it the fourth consecutive failed rainy season thus leading more people into an alarming situation.'], ['The drought is compromising fragile livelihoods heavily reliant on livestock and causing a worsening food security and nutrition while eroding coping strategies for the most vulnerable: The number of livestock dying from lack of food and water is staggering and increasing by the day. The high number of livestock deaths is an important indicator of this alarming situation. In fact, the numbers reported by January 2022 have by far exceeded the estimates from 2021. While 68,000 livestock deaths had been estimated in November, revised to 172,000 in December, the figures from January stand at more than 260,000 in January across Somali, southern Oromia and SNNP regions. An additional 2 million livestock are at risk across affected areas.'], ['Overall, the drought is currently affecting the livelihood of some 6.8 million people across the drought-affected areas.'], ['The drought is worsening food insecurity and malnutrition, while pastoralists are forced to walk and travel longer distances in search of water and pasture '], ['The surviving animals in the drought-affected areas are very weak and emaciated producing little or no milk, thus jeopardizing the availability of the main source of nutrition for children. A nutritional screening conducted by the Regional Health Bureau across Somali Region in December 2021 revealed a proxy Global Acute Malnutrition (GAM) rate of 18 per cent, higher than the global threshold of 15 per cent. Some 225,000 malnourished children and over 100,000 pregnant and breastfeeding women in Somali and Oromia currently need nutrition support according to UNICEF. Livestock market value has also significantly dropped as animals are not marketable, impacting families’ income source. Pastoralists who can still afford, physically and financially, to migrate in search of water and pasture have to travel hundreds of kilometers into unknown areas leaving behind members of their family who are often weak, vulnerable, or not fully able to provide for the rest of the family. They are often staying in the open without basic shelter and cover to protect them from the elements, wild animals, and other risks. '], ['The affected people are in urgent need of food, water, healthcare, shelter, and livestock assistance. '], ['The ongoing Government-led and humanitarian partners-supported multi-sectoral response needs to be urgently scaled up, including increasing water trucking interventions for potable and technical water, rehabilitation of livestock watering points, provision of food and non-food items such as jerry cans, blankets and cooking utensils, as well as cash along with livelihood support to maintain production capacity and to avail nutrition supplies for children and pregnant and breastfeeding women, livestock feed (fodder), destocking (slaughtering livestock for commercial purpose before they are weakened), vaccination, and veterinary support. Mobile health and nutrition clinics need to also be deployed to remote areas.'], ['The drought disproportionally affects women and children, exacerbating existing protection threats and vulnerabilities and creating new ones'], ['Informed gender-integrated responses are needed to strengthen access of the most vulnerable people to humanitarian services, according to the specific needs of age, gender, and disabilities. This will ensure that all parts of society inform an efficient and adapted drought preparedness and response.'], ['Protection from Sexual Exploitation and Abuse (PSEA) must be guaranteed and fully integrated into the drought response by all humanitarian stakeholders and implementing partners. Food insecurity usually heightens the risk of sexual exploitation and abuse, especially for women and girls. Collective drought response actions should therefore muster PSEA commitments and actions.'], ['Urgent, flexible and timely funding is needed to deliver assistance to the drought-affected population to avert another major humanitarian crisis in Ethiopia. Urgently addressing lifesaving needs and protecting livelihoods is crucial.'], ['Government and community resource mobilization has been ongoing at regional and local levels, including but not limited to ETB200 million (approx. $4.3 million) by the Somali Regional Government in form of water trucking, food distribution, and emergency shelter items; and ETB10 million (approx. $199,991) by the Harari Regional Administration, while the Kabridahar University provided eleven trucks of animal feed as part of an ETB5 million (approx. $ 99,993) pledged donation for the drought response. The Oromia Region is also developing a drought response plan with humanitarian partners.'], ['According to a recent FAO assessment, at least US$53 million is required only for the agriculture sector to safeguard 360,000 core breeding animals belonging to 180,000 households, treat 4.5 million heads of livestock and vaccinate 6 million cattle and 10.5 million small ruminants belonging to 435,000 households in the affected areas. It will also support the local economies through emergency slaughter destocking, rehabilitate at least 70 water points to benefit 600,000 heads of livestock and 30,000 households and their livelihoods, as well as support the production of 30,000 tons of fodder by 4,000 households. Other clusters are also estimating funding requirements which will be shared soon.'], ['Some funding has already been allocated by donors since the end of 2021 for the drought response, including $5 million by the Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) in June 2021 and $2 million by the Ethiopian Humanitarian Fund (EHF). Earlier, CERF had disbursed $20 million in two phases as part of the drought Anticipatory Action Pilot ($13.2 million in December 2020 and $6.8 million in March 2021). The Pilot project was implemented in Afar, Oromia. SNNP and Somali regions in the Agriculture, Education, Health, Nutrition, Protection and WASH sectors. The project evaluation is currently in progress to identify reach and impact. UNOCHA']]}, {'Date': 'February 4, 2022', 'Header': '#NewsAlert: OFC, ONLF say Dialogue Commission process  unrepresentative, not impartial; decline Parliament invitation today', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – Three opposition parties Oromo Federalist Congress (OFC), Oromo Liberation Front (OLF) and Ogaden National Liberation Front (ONLF) said the  process of Ethiopia’s planned National Dialogue and the nomination of Commissioners to lead it is not impartial [OFC], unknown [OLF] and lacked representation [ONLF]. '], ['Addis Standard has confirmed from the three parties that their leaders have declined to join a meeting today which was called by Tagesse Chafo, Speaker of the House of People’s Representatives (HoPR). The meeting was called by the Speaker to discuss the list of nominees. '], ['It was on December 29 that the House approved the Commission’s establishment Proclamation No. 1265/2014 by majority vote with 13 nos and one abstention. Subsequently the HoPR’s Standing Committee on Law, Justice and Democracy said Commissioners who will be leading the National Dialogue Commission will be selected by the people of Ethiopia and their appointments will be approved by the Parliament. '], ['Late this afternoon, the HoPR has issued a shortlist of 42 people who were nominated by the public to lead the National Dialogue Commission (NDC). '], ['Professor Merera Gudina, Chairman of the OFC, confirmed to Addis Standard that party representatives did not go to the meeting called by the HoPR’s Speaker. “We do not believe that it is impartial,” Merera said, adding that the party has recently sent a letter to Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed expressing its reservation on the transparency and inclusiveness in the process. But “we haven’t received a response.” '], [' Tiruneh Gemta, OFC Secretariat, told Addis Standard that the letter raised a a concern about the commission’s impartiality. “The dialogue should be commissioned by accepted bodies by the public if not by internationally recognized independent bodies. However, the fact that the dialogue is overseen by the parliament led by the ruling party will not bring a lasting solution as it will not include opposition parties as well as armed groups,” the statement sent to the PM’s office reads. Senior members of the party, inclusing Jawar Mohammed, Bekele Gerba and Hamza Borena, as well as several others who were arrested shortly after the assassination of popular Oromo artist Hachalu Hundessa were released On January 07 in what the government said was in preparation for the national dialogue. '], ['Similarly, Lemi Gemechu, Public Relations head of the OLF, told Addis Standard today that the party doesn’t know “what the dialogue is about. We were not invited.” Although members of the OFC are released from detention, majority of OLF’s senior leadership remain either detained or missing. Many were set free on court bail but were rearrested by the police.   '], ['Abdi Mahdiz, Chairman the ONLF), told Addis Standard that the party has “already tested the sincerity of the current processes in Ethiopia, like the so called election,” he said, adding that the “ONLF has issued a statement a week ago outlining what we consider a fair and legitimate process to establish a National dialogue commission. The selection of such a committee must involve all key stakeholders. What we see is a one party affair that is not representative. In addition as a member of the Multinational Federal democratic alliance, our key members are sidelined. Thus, the hope of starting a genuine dialogue that could find a viable solution to all injustices and political quagmire in Ethiopia is in jeopardy. A one party affair will never address the current political crisis in Ethiopia.”\xa0'], ['“Unless a genuine participatory process is put in place that reflects the interest of key stakeholders representing their respective communities,”  Abdi Mahdiz  further said adding “the ONLF will not be attending any process with regards to the national dialogue and the national dialogue commission’s selection process.” AS']]}, {'Date': 'February 1, 2022', 'Header': 'NewAlert: UN Chief invokes Olympic Truce to appeal for end of hostilities, humanitarian access to pave way for inclusive dialogue in Ethiopia', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba –Shortly before his departure to attend the Winter Olympic Games Beijing 2022, the UN Secretary General António Guterres has issued yet another appeal to end hostilities in the 15 months old civil war in Ethiopia. In his appeal, the Secretary-General invoked :the tradition of the Olympic Truce”, which he said “has called on all parties, everywhere, to stop hostilities throughout the course of Games.”   '], ['Mr. Guterres’ last statement on Ethiopia was issued on on Janurary 19 in which he said he had “a telephone conversation” with the African Union High Representative for the Horn of Africa, Olusegun Obasanjo, “to exchange views with him on the conflict in Ethiopia following his latest visit to Addis Abeba and Mekelle, the capital of the regional state of Tigray.”'], ['He said he was “delighted that after over a year of armed conflict which has affected millions of people across Ethiopia and the rest of the region, there is now a demonstrable effort to make peace.”'], ['However, there has been no tangible progress since then and Ethiopian officials have continued denying that there were talks to end hostilities. But on January 29, the leader of Tigray state, Debretsion Gebremichael (PhD), has told the BBC that “there are encouraging signs” in the peace negotiations to end civil war.  '], ['The call today came at the backdrop a new food security assessment, released today by the United Nations World Food Program (WFP),revealed that “almost 40 percent of Tigrayans are suffering an extreme lack of food, after 15 months of conflict. Meanwhile, across all three conflict-affected regions of the north more than 9 million people are in need of humanitarian food assistance, the highest number yet.” '], ['In his statement today, Mr. Guterres stressed that ending the hostilities and facilitating access to humanitarian supplies were actions that “will pave the way to a much-needed inclusive national dialogue involving all Ethiopians.”   '], ['Full statement '], ['The people of Ethiopia continue to suffer greatly from ongoing conflict and bloodshed. '], ['For millennia, the tradition of the Olympic Truce has called on all parties, everywhere, to stop hostilities throughout the course of Games. '], ['As I prepare to leave for the Winter Olympics, I make the strongest possible appeal for all parties in Ethiopia for an immediate cessation of hostilities.'], ['And this can allow for effective humanitarian access and relief to all affected populations throughout Ethiopia. '], ['And these actions will pave the way to a much-needed inclusive national dialogue involving all Ethiopians. '], ['I reiterate my appeal to all parties to follow the finest tradition of the Olympic Spirit to save lives, overcome differences and find the path to real peace.   ']]}, {'Date': 'February 1, 2022', 'Header': 'News: UN cautions prolonged drought pushing families in Ethiopia to the brink', 'news_paragraphs': [['More than 6.8 million people in drought-impacted areas will be in need of urgent humanitarian assistance by mid-March 2022'], ['Addis Abeba – Three consecutive failed rainy seasons have brought on severe drought in Ethiopia’s lowland regions of Afar, Oromia, the Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples’ (SNNPR) and Somali regions drying up water wells, killing livestock and crops and pushing hundreds of thousands of children and their families to the brink.'], ['“The impact of the drought is devastating,” said Gianfranco Rotigliano, UNICEF Ethiopia Representative. “Children and their families are struggling to survive due to loss of livelihoods and livestock and it is projected that more than 6.8 million people will be in need of urgent humanitarian assistance by mid-March 2022. We are also witnessing major displacement out of affected areas.”\xa0 \xa0'], ['The most severely impacted regions are the lowland areas of southern and eastern Oromia and Somali regions. There is a significant lack of clean water and the food security is deteriorating rapidly leading to an increase in malnutrition cases.'], ['“In drought-affected areas in Oromia and Somali around 225,000 malnourished children and over 100,000 pregnant and breastfeeding women need urgent nutrition support,” said Rotigliano. “The lack of clean water is further exacerbating the situation for children and women. If children are forced to drink contaminated water, it puts them at risk to various diseases including diarrhea which is a major cause of deaths among children under five.”'], ['To date, in the drought-impacted areas in Oromia and Somali regions, some 4.4 million people are currently facing critical water shortages.'], ['It is also projected that in 2022, an estimated 850,000 children will be severely malnourished across the four regions due to multiple causes namely conflict, drought, and economic downturn.'], ['Children are also missing out on an education due to the drought. Over 155,000 children in the lowlands of Somali and Oromia regions have dropped out of school so they can help fetch water – often\xa0traveling long distances – or look after other children while their caregivers try to find water for their families and cattle. Children who are out of school are at risk of exploitation or are being pushed into dangerous coping mechanisms. \xa0'], ['In response, UNICEF, in close coordination with the local authorities, is working tirelessly to provide life-saving assistance to those desperately in need. This includes the rehabilitation of boreholes and water schemes, emergency water trucking, treatment of severely malnourished children and providing emergency education and child protection support.'], ['UNICEF’s drought response appeal for impacted areas in Ethiopia is USD $31 million in addition to the overall humanitarian appeal of USD $351 million. This specific funding will target more than 2 million vulnerable people in Afar, Oromia, SNNPR and Somali regions. Dispatch ']]}]
[{'Date': 'February 1, 2022', 'Header': '#ASDailyScoop: Ministry to administer exit exams to all undergraduate programs', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – The Ministry of Education said it will begin to administer exit examinations to all undergraduate programs in order to improve the quality of higher education.  This was disclosed at a meeting held between Prof. Berhanu Nega, Minister of Education, and  residents of Higher Education Institutions today.  '], ['According to a statement from the Ministry, the discussion focused on the draft structure for public universities that will enable the institutions to be more accountable and streamlined, as well as more efficient and effective.  '], ['Prof. Berhanu is quoted as saying that exams will be given to all undergraduate programs in the next academic year to enhance the quality of higher education, both public and private and stressed that universities should be places where the academic community can be free from politics. He added that in order to enable universities to fulfill their mission efficiently and effectively and due to the fact that universities are sources of knowledge, research and innovation, the structural reform that has been started is a fundamental part of it.  '], [' “Universities should distinguish their objective in order to focus on changing the lives of the local community,” the ministry quoted Prof. Berhanu as saying.  '], ['The draft university structure document was presented at the meeting today and discussed by the participants. AS ']]}, {'Date': 'January 28, 2022', 'Header': '#NewsAlert: WFP latest food security assessment reveals 40 percent Tigrayans suffer from extreme lack of food, 83 percent food insecure', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – A new food security assessment, released today by the United Nations World Food Program (WFP), shows that almost 40 percent of Tigrayans are suffering an extreme lack of food, after 15 months of conflict. Meanwhile, across all three conflict-affected regions of the north more than 9 million people are in need of humanitarian food assistance, the highest number yet.'], ['The Tigray Emergency Food Security Assessment found that 83 percent of people are food insecure. Families are exhausting all means to feed themselves, with three quarters of the population using extreme coping strategies to survive. Diets are increasingly impoverished as food items become unavailable and families rely almost exclusively on cereals while limiting portion sizes and the number of meals they eat each day to make whatever food is available stretch further.'], ['In terms of nutrition, the survey found that 13 percent of Tigrayan children under 5 and half of all pregnant and breastfeeding women are malnourished, leading to poor pregnancy outcomes, low-birth weight, stunting and maternal death.“This bleak assessment reconfirms that what the people of northern Ethiopia need is scaled up humanitarian assistance, and they need it now,” said Michael Dunford, WFP’s Regional Director for Eastern Africa.'], ['“WFP is doing all it can to ensure our convoys with food and medicines make it through the frontlines. But if hostilities persist, we need all the parties to the conflict to agree to a humanitarian pause and formally agreed transport corridors, so that supplies can reach the millions besieged by hunger.” In neighboring Amhara region, hunger has more than doubled in five months because the region bore the brunt of recent fighting between the Ethiopian National Defense Force (ENDF) and the Tigray Forces (TF). More than 14 percent of children under five and almost a third of pregnant and breastfeeding women are malnourished.'], ['In Afar region, to the east of Tigray, conflict-driven displacement is pushing hunger and malnutrition rates up. Recent health screening data shows malnutrition rates for children under five were at 28 percent, far above the standard emergency threshold of 15 percent. Intensified conflict on the Tigray-Afar border in recent days is expected to force more communities from their homes and deeper into hunger.'], ['WFP estimates that on average, crisis-affected families in northern Ethiopia were getting less than 30 percent of their caloric needs in the past months, pushing people deeper into crisis. It’s expected that that constant humanitarian food assistance will be required at least throughout 2022.'], ['Since March, and despite the challenges posed to operations, WFP has reached almost 4 million people across northern Ethiopia with food and nutrition assistance. The survey found that when access to Tigray improved during the summer months, humanitarian assistance from WFP and its partners kept starvation at bay for those who had been cut off from assistance prior to May.\xa0'], ['More recently, however, no convoy has reached Tigray since mid-December. Fighting and insecurity means WFP and other humanitarian actors are struggling to reach areas areas isolated by conflict, in conditions that risk the safety of staff and the security of humanitarian supplies.'], ['WFP’s Northern Ethiopia response urgently requires US$337 million to deliver assistance over the next six months, and will begin running out of the capacity to purchase food from February. Across the entire country, WFP has an unprecedented funding gap of US$667 million to save and change the lives of 12 million people over the next six months. Dispatch']]}, {'Date': 'January 28, 2022', 'Header': 'News: US shares additional 1,680,120 doses of Pfizer vaccine with Ethiopia', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – The Embassy of the United States in Ethiopia is pleased to announce the arrival of 1,680,120 doses of the Pfizer vaccine that the United States is providing to Ethiopia through COVAX.\xa0 We are sharing these doses safely, equitably, and with no strings attached.\xa0 Our singular objective is saving lives.'], ['These two shipments of 840,060 doses each, which arrived at the Bole International Airport in Addis Abeba, via COVAX on January 24 and 26, 2022, bring the number of doses of vaccines provided to Ethiopia by the American people to over 6.1 million since July 17, 2021.'], ['“Safe and effective vaccines are our best tool to end the pandemic, and the United States has committed to purchasing and donating 1.1 billion COVID-19 vaccine doses worldwide.\xa0 To date, the United States has delivered more than 365 million doses of vaccine to more than 110 countries.\xa0 The commitment to provide COVID-19 vaccines to 92 Gavi Advance Market Commitment economies and African Union Member States fulfills U.S. President Biden’s commitment to strengthen the fight against the global pandemic,” a statement from the U.S. embassy in Addis Abeba said. '], ['As President Biden has said: “The United States is committed to bringing the same urgency to international vaccination efforts that we have demonstrated at home. We are sharing these vaccines to save lives and to lead the world in bringing an end to the pandemic.”'], ['“We look forward to continued coordination with the African Union and the Africa CDC to deliver these doses across the continent through the COVAX initiative via their established logistical channels.” Dispatch ']]}, {'Date': 'January 26, 2022', 'Header': 'News: More than 800,000 people vulnerable in 8 drought-affected zones in Oromia; Over 4 million people in need of assistance due to conflict', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Getahun Tsegaye @GetahunTsegay12'], ['Addis Abeba, January 26/ 2022- The Oromia region disaster risk and development induced displacement and resettlement commission announced that over 800,000 people in 8 drought-affected zones in the region seek assistance. The commission also disclosed that over 4 million people in conflict-affected areas in the region are being provided with aid.\xa0'], ['The commissioner of the Oromia region disaster risk and development induced displacement and resettlement commission, Mustafe Kedir told the local news agency that 800,244 people are in need of assistance because of drought caused by rain shortage in eight zones of southeastern Oromia. The commission also stated that cattle are dying due to a lack of fodder.\xa0'], ['According to him, the drought may persist for three months. He warned that the situation is dire and beyond the government’s capacity. According to the commissioner, the government is working on preventing the death from hunger including cattle but it is struggling to provide fodder for over 6 million cattle.'], ['The Commissioner stated that the government has taken various measures to address the problem. He said, “So far, 197,896 quintals of food was distributed to the drought-affected Borena zone alone,” further outlining the government’s efforts to provide water and cattle feed.\xa0'], ['The weather forecast indicated the three months duration of the drought, Muktar said, detailing directives set by the regional government to organize the 21 zonal and 18 city administrations to assist by producing cattle feed. He also noted that the regional government resettled most vulnerable animals to neighboring zones.\xa0'], ['Additional 4,976,981 people from conflict-affected areas who are in need of assistance are being provided with 1,587,694 quintals of grain and donated 51 million,755 thousand ETB\xa0 in cash, the commissioner said.\xa0\xa0'], ['The commissioner reiterated that the crisis can not be tackled by the government alone and called on business owners, governmental and non-governmental organizations, and aid agencies to play their part in producing and transporting fodder as well as providing assistance to those in need.AS']]}, {'Date': 'January 22, 2022', 'Header': 'Feature: Still suffering, detained Ethiopians in Saudi Arabia plead with the government to intervene', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Etenesh Abera @EteneshAb\xa0'], ['Addis Abeba, January 22, 2022 – In January, thousands of Ethiopian diaspora mostly from the United States and Europe diaspora began arriving in Ethiopia responding to the government’s call for a “great Ethiopian homecoming” for celebrations of Ethiopian Christmas and Timket (Epiphany) festivals. Amid all of this, Addis Standard received several reports of detainees held in inhumane conditions in Saudi Arabia prisons.\xa0'], ['\xa0An earlier Addis Standard investigation into the conditions of Ethiopians detained in Saudi Arabia’s prisons revealed that a crackdown on illegal migrants targeted many Ethiopians. Testimonies offered via multiple calls from detainees inside the conservative kingdom prisons revealed that the crackdown continued. According to the detainees, nursing mothers, infants, and pregnant women are suffering in the prison without sufficient food, medicine, and a proper place to sleep, and urged the government to intervene. The detainees complained about Embassy officials and Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MoFA) officials abandoning their responsibilities and ignoring their pleas.\xa0'], ['In-Depth-Analysis: Ethiopians in Saudi Arabia complain of mistreatment in detention centers, arbitrary arrests; MoFA says efforts ongoing to ensure safety of residents, return of detainees https://t.co/EDoNTvQj3k @BilehJelan looks into the fresh crackdown on migrants & residents'], ['“More than 150 people are held in our cell,” said Hayat, a mother of one who traveled to Saudi Arabia from the Amhara region’s Oromia Special Zone. She added,” They don’t provide us with sufficient food, they give us a loaf of bread in the morning and another one in the evening. In addition, we don’t have enough medicines or blankets.”\xa0'], ['“Life in this prison is horrible,” said Hayat, who was arrested while returning from the hospital where she was receiving mental health treatment. She added, “I have an eye condition and I am not getting the proper medication. I pleaded with them while being arrested to allow the chance to buy my medicine but they refused and said that I will be provided with medicine inside the prison.”'], [' Nursing mothers, infants, and pregnant women are suffering in the prison without sufficient food, medicine, and a proper place to sleep.  '], ['Earlier this month, Ambassador Dina Mufti, the spokesperson of the MoFA insisted that the Great Homecoming Challenge was for all Ethiopians across the world. He stated that the conditions of Ethiopians who reside in the middle east are deteriorating from time to time. The Ambassador also said, “There has been relentless pressure on Ethiopia from these countries lately and the situation should thoroughly be investigated.” The ambassador admitted that the government failed to fully engage to help our stranded citizens in Saudi Arabia and other Gulf countries due to limited resources and security issues the country is facing.'], ['Ziyada is a mother of one and is originally from the war-torn Tigray region. She spoke a great deal about the inhumane conditions inside these prisons. “My daughter and I have been in this prison for eight months now,” said Ziyada before adding, “Besides not getting sufficient meals, we became vulnerable to communicable diseases since they are holding close to 200 people in a single room.”\xa0Ziyada, like thousands of others who entered Saudi Arabia illegally searching for a better life, shared the common experience experienced by thousands of migrants and the continued failure by the diplomatic outposts in the kingdom to assist and protect citizens.\xa0'], ['In an attempt to get a deeper understanding of the situation in Saudi prisons Addis Standard spoke to Nebiyu Sirak, a journalist and a community advocate who lived and was active in Saudi Arabia. He complimented the testimonies by detainees about the inhumane conditions they were kept in and argued that there is a campaign targeting Ethiopians. He said, “Not all the detainees are illegal migrants. There are also some legal migrants who are detained without any due notice to later be identified as being legal migrants, a practice I would argue is not acceptable, to say the least.”\xa0'], [' “Not all the detainees are illegal migrants. There are also some legal migrants who are detained without any due notice to later be identified as being legal migrants.” '], ['According to Nebiyu, more than half a million Ethiopians are estimated to be living in Saudi Arabia both legally and illegally of which more than 100,000 of them are now suffering in the kingdom’s prisons. He said, “Outside the prison, an estimated 200,000 Ethiopian migrants are in danger.”\xa0 Nebiyu spoke about the year-long government initiative that resulted in the return of more than 42,000 illegal migrants but argued that none provided a lasting solution. He added, “We know of different initiatives including sending a delegation to Saudi from MoFA, but it remains a fact that the government failed at stopping the harassment and sufferings of its citizens. The large-scale crackdown continued and remaining citizens remain under the threat of harassment and abuse.’’\xa0 Nebiyu accused the Ethiopian diplomatic mission in Saudi Arabia of failing citizens and explained that the uncoordinated efforts resulted in diplomats with diplomatic immunity and their families falling victims to the crackdown.\xa0'], ['Legal migrants who have fallen victims to the large-scale crackdown also complained of the worsening conditions inside prisons like Alemu, a father of four originally from Bahir Dar. He spoke to Addis Standard via phone from the detention center near Jeddah. He said, ”For the last nine months no official from the Ethiopian General Consulate in Jeddah visited us. We are still wearing what we wore on the day we were arrested.’’ Alemu, like many legal migrants, was the breadwinner for his family, he complained that since his imprisonment, his family in Ethiopia suffered from the loss of income. He pleaded with the government to return them home.The crackdown spares no one according to Ahmed, another legal migrant whose family members are detained. He expressed dismay at how the government is undermining the issue of Ethiopians in Saudi. Ahmed said, “I observed that the weekly reports published by MoFA about the detainees do not show the reality on the ground,” he added, “The reports are politically oriented and do not pay attention to the human rights question of detained citizens. When questions are raised about the conditions of detainees,\xa0 the government repeatedly talks about efforts to return them.”\xa0 Ahmed complained that despite being a legal migrant, he remains under the threat of detention “ The situation is bad. I am outside the prison but my brother and sister who have their own families back in Ethiopia are suffering in prisons. I can not\xa0 provide any kind of support for them as I fear for my own safety.”\xa0'], [' “I observed that the weekly reports published by MoFA about the detainees do not show the reality on the ground.” '], ['Although the Ministry of Foreign affairs talks about the issue of stranded Ethiopian citizens in Saudi Arabia at consecutive press briefings in the past couple of weeks, it rarely offered more than pledges to resume repatriating Ethiopian nationals ‘as soon as possible.’ The ministry justified delays in the process of repatriating Ethiopian nationals by other ‘top priorities’ that the government was supposed to address timely. Last week the ministry’s spokesperson said, “A delegation has been established to facilitate the repatriation and this team will soon leave for Saudi Arabia to bring the stranded citizens back home.”'], ['The latest response from the MoFA came at this week’s biweekly briefing, where Ambassador Dina told reporters that the said delegation team is waiting for a visa to leave for Saudi Arabia.AS']]}]
[{'Date': 'January 15, 2022', 'Header': 'Feature: Drought hits more woredas in East Showa, Hararghe Zones  of Oromia region', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Dereje Gonfa @DerejeGonfa\xa0'], ['Addis Abeba, January 15, 2022 – In the Oromia region where drought and worsening food crisis is ravaging several woredas mainly in Borana and East Bale zones, more reports of drought have been coming out of the arid areas in East Showa zone’s Fentale woreda, West and East Hararghe zones in Eastern Oromia.\xa0\xa0'], ['Roba Jilo, a resident of Fentale woreda complained about the effect of the drought on the community and their cattle, mostly camels. He explained, “The cattle are getting weak and unable to move because of lack of food and water. In some areas, the cattle are dying.” According to Roba, the farming season saw a shortage of rainfall. He added, “If the situation continues to go as it is, we are set to face a huge humanitarian disaster.”'], ['His concerns are shared by Boru Hawas, another resident who pointed that the drought is killing the community’s cattle, their main source of income. Boru highlighted the conflict over grazing areas between residents of Fentale Woreda and residents of the bordering Minjar Shenkora woreda in the Amhara region aggravated the situation. Boru argued, “Unless the border issue is resolved, we cannot move our cattle like we used to. The drought will get worse soon, we are facing hunger already. I don’t know what will happen.”'], ['Residents of the woreda also complained of a lack of assistance from regional authorities and non-governmental organizations operating in the region. Gadissa Barcho, the head of woreda’s disaster management bureau corroborated residents’ testimonies and added that the prolonged drought created fear among the residents.\xa0'], ['Gadissa said, “All the 18 kebeles are experiencing drought, except for some that have the Awash river irrigation project running through.” He added, “The drought is not severe now relative to other areas, but it is getting worse. In some areas, the shortage of water and pasture is forcing the residents to migrate. The situation is worrisome.”\xa0'], ['The woreda official said, “We have assessed the impact of the drought and reported it to the concerned body,” he added “We are still collecting data. We don’t have the final figures as to how many people are affected.” He further expressed his concern that the drought’s impact may be large-scale and argued that it is the case in some kebeles.'], ['Gadissa spoke about the impact inflation is having on food security. He said, “The price of cattle is going down as the price for food items is going up. It is reaching a point where residents can’t trade two heads of cattle for a Quintal of wheat.” The lowering of cattle prices is becoming rampant in drought-stricken areas. There are similar trends in other parts of Oromia Region where the plunging price of cattle is aggravating the impact of drought on the pastoralists.\xa0'], ['The official underlined the lack of action by what he described as a ‘concerned body’ despite the woreda’s plea for assistance. “Nothing has reached us so far,” he said.\xa0'], ['The situation in the adjacent zones\xa0 of both West and East Hararghe is no different\xa0'], ['8 woredas are affected by the drought in the East Hararghe zone alone. While in West Hararghe zone, Hawi Gudina, Burka Dimtu, Gumbi Bordode and Mieso districts\xa0 are also affected by the drought, according to sources.\xa0'], ['Abdi Ibrahim, a resident of the Mayu Muluke woreda of the East Hararghe zone spoke about the effects of drought and challenges facing the community. He said, “It has not rained in a long time and all the lakes and the springs dried up. It is hard to find drinking water, including for the cattle. The animals are getting weak, unable to move and some have started dying,” he added, “People are starting to flee in search of water and grazing land. The situation is worrying if it continues like this.”'], ['Abdi described the scale of support the community is receiving as minimal. He said,“We are receiving a little support, two trucks were distributing water for several areas. But the water was not even enough for the people let alone the cattle. Now one of the trucks is not working. Providing water to an entire woreda with a single truck is unlikely.”'], ['Abdul Hasib Ahmed, another resident of the same woreda, complemented Abdi’s testimony by saying, “People with low income are affected the most. We hear people saying support will come but we have not seen any yet. Everyone is in need, we need larger support to survive this drought. ”'], ['The drought has affected health care facilities as well according to Abdul Hasib . He said, “Schools and health posts are on the verge of closing due to the water shortage. This is the worst drought I have ever seen in my life.”'], ['Adnan Mohammed the head of Mayi Muluke disaster management bureau shared the frastrution of the residents and said the bureau’s investigation indicated confirmed drying up of water sources.\xa0'], ['Adnan fears the situation may get worse, “If it doesn’t rain in January around hundred thousand cattles may perish and around ten thousand people may be exposed to extreme hunger.”'], ['Currently water is provided to health posts and schools according to Adnan. He explained, “We are distributing water to health posts and schools. We are planning to dig deep wells to use the underground water. Unfortunately the plan is still in the phase of conducting research.”'], ['Mohammed Yusuf is a farmer and a resident of Chinaksen woreda in the East Hararghe zone. He said, “We planted sorghum and corn. Because the rain stopped abruptly, it didn’t yield fruit. Instead it served as cattle food. The cattle survived this far with the corn and sorghum. I don’t know what the cattle will feed on in the future.”'], ['Mohammed noted that the conflict with the neighboring Somali region hindered the community’s movement in search of water. Violence and looting is forcing people to glee their homes, worsening the impact of drought making the community prone to hunger, he explained.\xa0'], ['“Here in the East Hararghe zone, the price of cattle has plummeted as the cattle become weak and unattractive for traders,” Mohammed said. This coupled with inflation might lead to a multi-layered humanitarian crisis, he predicted.\xa0'], ['Tefera Eshete, the zonal disaster and risk management bureau disclosed that the bureau confirmed through research that 8 woredas are affected by drought. “We are planning to provide fodder, water and food starting from January,” he said.\xa0\xa0'], ['Contrary to residents’ testimonies, Miski Mohamed, the administrator of East Hararghe zone said, “The drought didn’t affect the community. We are conducting research on how to handle it, if it occurs in the future.”'], ['While the East Hararghe zone remains more affected than the West Hararghe zone, the situation in West Hararghe is no better.\xa0'], ['Abduraman Riyadh, a public servant in Hawi Gudina district of the zone is of the opinion that the slow response to the drought is worsening its impact. Abduraman went on to talk about water shortage, “We are paying 25 to 30 ETB per liter for water fetched from the river. ” Abduraman argued that providing water with trucks is not a sustainable solution, “I don’t think two trucks can supply water for the entire woreda.”'], ['The drought is affecting more aspects of the lives of the residents of the two zones.\xa0 Aliyi Kedir, a resident of Burka Dimtu woreda who like many residents of West Hararghe zone told Addis Standard that he is considering fleeing the area to look for better opportunities to make ends meet elsewhere in Oromia.\xa0\xa0'], ['Schools are on the verge of closure as a result of the worsening drought according to Lelisa Kuma, a teacher at a primary school in Burka Dimtu woreda. He explained that the dropout rate is increasing dramatically as students continue to drop out as they assist their families in search for water and cattle feed. “Schools are discussing closing down all together,” he said.\xa0'], ['The administrator of West Hararghe zone, Elias corroborated the testimonies of the residents of the zone. “We have identified areas where the drought is expected to have severe impacts. We are currently providing assistance to three woredas that are affected worst. ” Elias predicted that 400,000 people could be exposed to hunger if the drought prolongs.\xa0'], ['Reports suggests that Millions of people in Kenya, Ethiopia and Somalia are in dire need of humanitarian assistance due to drought killing hundreds of thousands of their cattle and damaging thousands of hectares of crops. AS']]}, {'Date': 'January 15, 2022', 'Header': 'Analysis: Citizens with fixed income carry the brunt of unabated inflation', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Getahun Tsegaye @GetahunTsegay12'], ['Addis Abeba, January 3/2022– Inflation has a huge effect on the livelihood of many in the country but has profound effects on civil servants whose salaries remain unchanged. “Inflation hits harder on workers whose income is fixed, such as civil servants, pensioners, and low-income contract employees,” said Abis Getachew, an independent economist.\xa0'], ['Rabiya Yesuf, an employee of the Ministry of Agriculture, explained that the price of agricultural products such as teff, onions, potatoes, tomatoes has increased in November 2021 compared to the past couple of months. She said, “A kilo of Teff was 56 Ethiopian ETB in October then went up to 59 ETB in November.” According to her, a kilo of onion has increased by 15 ETB in one month. She expressed her concerns about the price hikes and how it is affecting her livelihood.\xa0'], ['The Central Statistics Agency (CSA) in its latest reports disclosed that the overall rate of inflation (12 months moving average inflation at Country Level) in Ethiopia increased by 25.5% by November 2021 compared to the one observed over the same period a year ago. According to the report, food inflation was the highest, registering a surge as high as 30.1 %, while non-food inflation registered at 19.4 % in November 2021 as compared to November 2020. The CSA reported that the 12 months moving average inflation rate suggests a longer-term high inflationary projection in the country.'], ['The CSA reported that the year-on-year inflation rate in November 2021 has surged by 33 % as compared to the one observed in November 2020 while the food inflation has increased by 38.9 %. The agency also reported that the month-on-month inflation rate registered a decrease of 0.6% and the food inflation a decrease of 1.7% compared to October 2021.\xa0 The CSA also reported that in November, cereals, vegetables, and pulses registered a relative price drop while meat, dairy products. Whereas spices (mainly salt and Pepper), and edible oil prices registered a slower decline with coffee beans and non-alcoholic beverages maintaining an inflationary reaction in November.'], [' “We’re not sure if we can keep paying such an amount of school fee nor do we have a plan to have another baby.” '], ['Sisay is a salesperson at a private company who complained about price hikes, describing it as “shocking”. She said while expressing amusement at the market movements compared to her salary, “A kilo of orange saw an increment of 100 percent. I don’t think I will afford to buy it anymore.”\xa0'], ['But others say the biggest challenge facing them is securing rent payment. Like Ayele who is a civil servant residing in Addis Abeba. He said, “Following the government’s declaration of banning rent increase, my landlord cannot increase the rent at least for the time being.\xa0 I however remain apprehensive that when the declaration is over, they will increase it,” he added, “My salary has almost been stagnant and hasn’t shown steady growth while the house rent was increasing alarmingly.”'], ['Another civil servant whom Addis Standard spoke to was Tinsae who is currently living in a rented one-bedroom condominium at the Abado site. She said, “I have been paying 6,500 ETB monthly but my friends who were displaced from Wollo due to the ongoing conflict were asked to pay 7,500 ETB for a similar bedroom,” she added,” However because some IDPs are returning to their hometowns, rent is dropping to where it used to be a few months ago.”'], ['Meron Anteneh, another civil servant, complained about the increase in private school fees in Addis Abeba. She told Addis Standard that her only son, who is currently in 1st grade, has been enrolled in the same school for the past three years. “The previous year I was paying 4,000 ETB every quarter but I am paying 6,100 ETB. That is an increase of 2,100 ETB making it an 8,400 ETB increment a year.” She added, “Taking into account the income my husband and I make, we’re not sure if we can keep paying such an amount of school fee nor do we have a plan to have another baby.”'], ['When asked about expectations from actions taken by the government to regulate and address inflation, some expressed hope that the salary increment would address the matter. However, others complained about the supply chain, corporate greed, and irresponsibility of house owners and asked for actions to address the lack of social responsibility.\xa0'], [' “Because the wholesalers at Merkato increased the price, I don’t have any option other than to increase the retail prices too.“'], ['Abdi Naje, a retail store owner, told Addis Standard that since the government announced punitive measures against individuals involved in creating artificial price hikes and commodity shortages, the market has been stable. According to Abdi, this trend isn’t sustainable. He said, “With the exception of some items, like edible oil, milk, and flour, the price of other edible and non-edible items started to go back where it used to be,” he added, ”Because the wholesalers at Merkato [The biggest marketplace in Africa] increased the price, I don’t have any option other than to increase the retail prices too.”'], ['Another aspect of concern is the increase in the prices of fuel products. Ashenafi, a resident of Addis Abeba expressed, “I’m scared that the cost of public transportation and other goods will increase.”'], ['It is worth mentioning that in December, federal authorities increased prices on various fuel products. According to the December adjustment, the price rose to 31.74 ETB from 25.86. Consequently, the Addis Abeba city administration Transport Bureau revised tariffs on public transport services.\xa0'], ['Measures taken by the government '], ['Intending to help low-income residents of Addis Abeba, the city administration cabinet decided to grant loans up to 500 million ETB to offer subsidies to consumer cooperatives that will provide basic consumer goods and stabilize the market price of grain.'], ['The Commercial Bank of Ethiopia (CBE), on its part, announced its plan to provide over 100 billion ETB in loans to the private sector, agricultural inputs, and public enterprises in the current budget year. Of this amount, 25 billion ETB is for the private sector, 30 billion ETB for agricultural inputs, and the rest for public enterprises to stimulate the economy; and resulting in job creation.\xa0'], ['Earlier in August last year, the Ethiopian Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI) disclosed the government’s plan to address the rising cost of living, by reducing double digits of inflation to a single digit by subsidizing basic commodities. The statement read, “A task Force, from federal to woreda level, is taking action against illegal trade activities which are causing more problems for the society by increasing prices without any valid economic reason for industrial and agricultural consumption.”'], ['The Ministry accused unnamed individuals of creating artificial shortages in basic goods and causing an increase in prices. It warned that actions will be taken against those involved in illegal activities disturbing the supply chain.\xa0\xa0'], ['What do economists say?'], ['Abis Getachew is an independent economist and researcher who has conducted extensive studies about inflation in Ethiopia. When Addis Standard asked him how inflation has affected civil servants, who live on a fixed income, Abis stated that these sections of the society are highly vulnerable to the inevitable inflation rate in Ethiopia. “The surge of inflation is alarming while their income is fixed which makes life hard for them,” he explained.'], ['Explaining the recent government’s interventions to set fixed prices on retailers and wholesalers, Abis underlined that such measurements might only play very subtle impacts on regulating the market for a certain period. The government should endeavor to work on grand economy projects that would help minimize or alleviate such an alarming inflation rate in the country, Abis said.\xa0'], ['Abis responded to the demands of civil servants’ salary increment queries saying, “Salary increment does not resolve the living standard of the civil servants or employees living on a fixed income. In the context of Ethiopia, it will instigate price rises on items which will create another destabilization.”\xa0\xa0'], ['“If the National Bank of the country is directly accountable to the House of Peoples’ Representatives instead of the Council of Ministers, it will be more independent and have the freedom to design well-established policies that can help fix the existing economic problems Ethiopia is facing.”  '], ['“It is not too late to fix the inflation spikes,” the economist said, adding, “the government and concerned bodies should work on housing, transportations, and corporations’ projects.” According to him, if these entities work on the availability of such projects at lower prices, consumers, including employees on a fixed income, would have opportunities to shop per their income.'], ['He further advised the government to come up with a policy that lets the National Bank become independent. “If the National Bank of the country is directly accountable to the House of Peoples’ Representatives instead of the Council of Ministers, it will be more independent and have the freedom to design well-established policies that can help fix the existing economic problems Ethiopia is facing.”'], ['Concerning the ongoing war in Tigray, Afar, and Amhara regions, Abis stated his speculation that the war might have resulted in shortages of supplies. “Due to the war, millions have been displaced from their homes and various industries were destroyed and burned down which have disrupted the normal living conditions of many.” He added, “Food items and other supplies have been transported from other parts of Ethiopia to the war fronts and that might have resulted in shortages and contributed to the inflation,” Abis stated. He expressed his hope that the inflation rate would go down after the conflict in the north comes to an end and called upon the government and concerned bodies to come up with interventions to regulate the inflation spikes in the country. AS']]}, {'Date': 'January 14, 2022', 'Header': 'Feature: Amidst ‘medical catastrophe’ in Tigray, Ethiopia accuses WHO DG of ‘misconduct’', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], ['Addis Abeba: In a letter sent to the Executive Board of the World Health Organization (WHO), Ethiopia filed its “objection against the Director-General of WHO, Dr. Tedros Adhanom” over what it said was the DG’s “moral, legal and professional standing that threatened WHO’s organizational integrity.”'], ['The letter was sent to the WHO executive board after Dr. Tedros said that “a de facto blockade” imposed by the Ethiopian government has created “hell” in Tigray regional state, and was “an insult to our humanity.”'], ['The situation is “so dreadful and unimaginable during this time, the 21st century, when a government is denying its own people for more than a year food and medicine and the rest to survive,” Dr. Tedros told international media on December 10. According to him the “WHO was able to dispatch 14 MT of medical supplies to Afar and 70 MT to Amhara in December last year, but “in Tigray, WHO has not been permitted to deliver medical supplies since mid-July of last year despite repeated request.”'], ['People in #Tigray #Ethiopia, living under de facto blockade for over a year, are dying from lack of medicine & food, & repeated drone attacks.@WHO & partners call for safe, unimpeded access to deliver humanitarian aid to the millions of people in great need.We need access now! pic.twitter.com/nZHa7DfRQI'], ['“Nowhere in the world are we witnessing hell like in Tigray,” Dr. Tedros said. His statement was echoed by WHO’s emergencies chief Michael Ryan, who said the current status has left the people with “no access to the very basic life-saving interventions that we in the west would expect immediately, instantly. This is an insult to our humanity.”'], ['It’s not clear if the letter filed by Ethiopia responded to Dr. Tedros’ statement, but the statement issued by MoFA accused him of abusing “his position by assigning staff in WHO’s country office in Ethiopia with a task of executing the plot to inflate the emergency level in Ethiopia, from 1.8 million people to 3.8 million, to warrant humanitarian intervention.”'], ['“This misrepresentation of facts is used to misinform the UN Security Council,” MoFA said, adding that Ethiopia “urges the WHO Executive Board to commission an investigation on the Director-General to identify his misconduct and violation of his professional and legal responsibility as provided under the Standards of Conduct for the International Civil Service, staff rules and regulations of WHO, and Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct of WHO.”'], [' “In wars there are always many wrongs, often on both sides, but the worst is to deny food and medical care to innocent civilians—anywhere” '], ['The Lancet appeals to world leaders'], ['On January 12, a renowned global peer-reviewed general medical journal, issued an appeal to world leaders in which it described the situation in Tigray as “a medical catastrophe”. “In short – a medical catastrophe is unfolding, in the background of war, famine, and a humanitarian tragedy.”'], ['“The situation at Ayder Comprehensive Specialized Hospital, a major teaching institution in Mekele in Tigray, is dire.In wars there are always many wrongs, often on both sides, but the worst is to deny food and medical care to innocent civilians—anywhere. As such, we, along with signatories of this Correspondence, appeal to the world’s medical community to demand protection of hospitals such as Ayder from attack, and furthermore we plead for assistance in ensuring the provision of food, equipment, and medications to care for the civilian population of Tigray,” The Lancent said.'], ['Ayder Hospital Doctors make desperate plea'], ['On January 04 a “Position Statement of Doctors and other health professionals of Ayder Comprehensive Specialized Hospital” issued a desperate plea to the world in which they revealed that “the availability of essential drugs, which was 79.3% a couple of years ago and 82% a year ago has now gone down to 17.5%. The availability of laboratory tests which was 93.7%, a couple of years ago and 84.2% a year ago, has now gone down to 42.1%.”'], ['The statement further said that doctors and medical professionals “have used and are still using expired drugs” and that the “neurosurgery team has decided to operate on patients with problems in the brain just based on clinical examinations, without having the support of CT scan and/or MRI images which have both been not functional for many months because spare parts could not reach our city due to the complete blockage.”'], ['The medical team “haven’t been paid our well-deserved salaries for the last seven months, our extra–time payments for nearly 13 months,” and they “are unable to withdraw whatever amount of money we have had in governmental and private banks because of the complete shutdown of banking service.We have nothing to feed our families and ourselves.”'], ['According to the Ministry of Health based on “Health Related Indicators published by MoH,” in 2020, “Tigray has 41 Hospitals, 226 Health Centers and 743 Health Posts.” Addis Standard’s repeated attempt to get comments from the Ministry’s Public Relation bureau were to no avail.  '], ['In March last year however, out of 106 health facilities visited by Doctors Without Borders (MSF) teams in Tigray from mid-December to early March, nearly 70 percent had been looted and more than 30 percent had been damaged. Only 13 percent were functioning normally. “Health facilities across Ethiopia’s Tigray region have been looted, vandalized, and destroyed in a deliberate and widespread attack on health care,” MSF said. AS']]}, {'Date': 'January 14, 2022', 'Header': 'Analysis: Breast Cancer prevalence weighs on Ethiopia’s frail health care system', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Etenesh Abera @EteneshAb \xa0'], ['Addis Abeba, January 8, 2022 -Breast cancer is one of the most prevalent cancer types in the world. According to the World Health Organization (WHO) more than 2.3 million women were diagnosed with breast cancer in the year 2020 alone with 685,000 registered deaths globally. Likewise, breast cancer is the most prevalent cancer type in Ethiopia accounting for 32 percent of total cases with more than 20,000 people being diagnosed with cancer annually.'], ['Dr. Endale Anbereber is an Oncology surgeon at Balck Lion specialized hospital. He explained that the exact cause of breast cancer is not known. However, it is possible to look out for predisposing factors such as smoking, alcohol, and obesity, “As with other cancer types, breast cancer can not be cured but early screening is the best way to detect and treat it in its early stages. According to him, the standard screening mechanism for Western countries is mammography but for countries like Ethiopia the procedure is very is expensive. He advises women to get regular clinical examinations or if that is not possible to check their breasts once a month.\xa0\xa0'], ['The oncology surgeon is of the opinion that factors such as lack of awareness, people’s preference of traditional medicine to modern treatment, lifestyle choices, and aging are increasing the number of breast cancer cases in the country. Dr. Endale explained that the admission of patients to the hospital long after cancer has advanced is the main challenge he faces. “Most of the time the patients make it to the hospital after cancer nears the final stage which makes the treatment very difficult and unfruitful,” he said. He also discussed how most health centers lack basic cancer treatment services. “Patients are forced to get on long waiting lists until they receive treatment. It is common to see the disease advancing to worse stages while patients are on the waiting list, including at Black lion hospital,”\xa0 Dr. Endale said.\xa0'], ['Dr. Endale disclosed the hospital’s plan to launch an initiative to open a one-stop breast cancer clinic that consists of surgery, chemotherapy, and other treatments in the same place. In collaboration with Martin Luther King college in Germany, the hospital has already started conducted clinical screening about three months ago. He underlined the need to do screening, especially for women who are predisposed and have a family history of cancer.\xa0'], ['Meron Kebede, a survivor of stage three Breast cancer, like Dr. Endale stresses the need for early screening. She is the founder of Pink Lotus Ethiopia’s breast cancer support group. ‘’ I founded this support group to help those who pass through breast cancer treatment as I did,” she explained, adding, “We also work on creating awareness about early the importance of detection of breast cancer.”'], ['The support group held meetings via social media platforms including youtube to exchange information and questions during the pandemic. The Pink Lotus Ethiopia breast cancer support group has a telegram channel with over 800 followers.\xa0'], ['The support group exchanges advice on the side effects of chemotherapy and a suitable lifestyle for cancer survivors, Meron said. She explained her ambitions to \xa0 upgrade the support group to a foundation, “Our group organizes fundraisings for cancer patients from outside Addis Abeba to get them admitted to private hospitals.”\xa0'], ['She concluded her remarks by disclosing her additional plans to work with stakeholders to make breast cancer treatment easily available to those who can’t afford it. “We want the government to hear our pleas to provide chemotherapy free of charge, especially for patients from rural areas, she said, adding, “Other diagnosis machines like mammography should be easily accessible. The government should also increase human power in oncology departments.” AS']]}, {'Date': 'January 13, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Ethiopia to resume repatriation of its nationals from Saudi Arabia after suspension of operation due to ‘top priorities’', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Getahun Tsegaye @GetahunTsegay12'], ['Addis Abeba, January 13, 2021-\xa0 Ethiopia plans to resume the repatriation of stranded Ethiopian citizens in Saudi Arabia in the coming few days, the spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ambassador Dina Mufti announced.'], ['At today’s biweekly press release, ambassador Dina Mufti recalled that the repatriation of Ethiopian nationals in Saudi Arabia was interrupted in the past few weeks due to other ‘top priorities’ that the government was supposed to address timely. “A delegation has been established to facilitate the repatriation and this team will soon leave for Saudi Arabia to bring the stranded back home,” the spokesperson said.'], ['Ambassador Dina Mufti described the past few weeks as a’ successful political landscape’ for Ethiopia stating that many areas occupied by Tigrayan forces in Amhara and Afar regions have now been reclaimed by the government forces. He also mentioned that the international communities were panicking and some of them were leaving the country following the ‘false narration’ that Tigrayan forces were closing in on the capital, Addis Abeba, “The panic has now subsided and life has begun to return to normalcy in many parts of Ethiopia,” he stated.'], ['The Ambassador also discussed PM Abiy Ahmed’s phone conversation with the U.S. President, Joe Biden where the two leaders agreed to enhance further engagements and foster bilateral relationships between Ethiopia and the United States.\xa0'], ['Ambassador Dina Mufti further talked about the meeting of Olusegun Obasanjo, the\xa0 High Representative for the Horn of Africa region,\xa0 with the TPLF leaders. “Obasanjo went to Mekelle to meet TPLF leaders and he’s engaged with the Ethiopian government as well. The Ethiopian government’s stand for peace has always been aimed at attaining a bigger goal,” adding,” It is the right time for the Ethiopian government to shift from conventional war to diplomatic war and we need to settle peace. Olusegun Obasanjo’s peace talks are still ongoing and there is just nothing ripe to publicize at this moment,” the spokesperson stated at the briefing.'], ['The spokesperson was asked what is the response of the Ethiopian government concerning Egypt’s Minister of Irrigation and Water Resources Mohamed Abdel-Ati speech on Sunday that described the negotiations over the GERD have so far failed to reach a favorable conclusion. In his speech, Abdel Ati said, “It is Ethiopia’s intransigence that has so far prevented the GERD negotiations from reaching a fair agreement between the three concerned countries: Egypt, Ethiopia, and Sudan,”\xa0'], ['The Ambassador responded, “It is unthinkable that Ethiopia will stop its project on the GERD. In fact, in the coming few weeks or months, we’ve set forth to generate electric power. Egypt’s officials have usually been accusing us of baseless allegations. We have never intended to hurt either Egypt or Sudan. GERD, surprisingly, will benefit Sudan. The Nile riparian negotiation will resume once Sudan regains its internal peace.” AS']]}]
[{'Date': 'January 5, 2022', 'Header': 'Analysis: Children’s Heart Fund of Ethiopia remains optimistic amid persisting challenges', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Etenesh Abera @EteneshAb\xa0'], ['Addis Abeba, January 05, 2022 – Founded 32 years ago, the Children’s Heart Fund of Ethiopia is the only non-government cardiac center that is providing full pediatric cardiac surgery.\xa0 The center has successfully carried out surgeries on children in need of the center services from all across the country.\xa0'], ['One such example is Esubalew is a 12 years old boy from Hossana town in the Southern Nations, Nationalities and People’s Region (SNNPR). He was accompanied by his aunt Aschalech Belay, who told Addis Standard that he had the condition since infancy. She said,“ We have been following his cardiac disease in hospitals for the last 10 years. After waiting for a long time we finally got to access the services of the cardiac center. He had the surgery last week.”\xa0 Aschalech praised the efforts made by the center to provide medications free of charge which eases the burden on families that are not residents of Addis Abeba and face financial challenges.'], ['Another beneficiary of the center is Abayneh Debeb, a father of three who came from Debre Markos, Amhara region. He is currently waiting for his son’s surgery at the center. He said, “Two children of mine, a son of 8 years and a daughter of 6 years old suffer from heart conditions. Thankfully, my daughter already had her surgery weeks ago.”\xa0'], ['Nahom Sintayehu, the head of public relations at the center told Addis Standard that the center faces many challenges that stand in its way of performing at full capacity.'], ['According to Nahom, the center receives from 10 to 12 children with heart conditions from all over the country on a daily basis. He explained,“ Our operating capability is up to 1,500 surgeries annually but because of many constraints we are limited to 500 surgeries per year.”'], ['He added, “Our plan is to up the numbers to 720 surgeries in the coming year.” The center’s PR couldn’t disclose the number of patients on the waiting list because the center is in the process of transferring its records from manual archives to a digital system data processing system. However, in 2019, an Addis Standard report revealed that more than 7,000 children were on the waiting list.\xa0'], ['The PR cited countrywide research and said that 16% of the country’s population suffers from cardiac conditions. Challenges affecting the work of the center in the last two years include the Covid-19 pandemic with related economic and social impacts. Nahom said’ “Since, our patients come from all over the country, travel bans created a temporary problem which was fixed with telecommunication follow-ups,” he added, ” Covid-19 prevention measures for children admitted for surgery and their caregivers became an additional expense on the center.”\xa0'], ['But he argued that medical equipment was the biggest limitation facing the center during the pandemic since more than 80% of medical equipment are imported. He said, “While most of the challenge was addressed by support from international donors, there was a significant increase in the support we used to receive from the Ministry of Health (MoH) and Ethiopian Public Health Institute (EPHI),” he added, “Even those monthly donations were not collected properly as a result of of a disrupted economic movement. For instance 6710, a hotline provided by Ethio-Telecom to garner donations of as much as 300,000 to 400,000 ETB per month. Now we receive only 30,000 – 40,000 ETB per month as a result of effects of the global pandemic.”\xa0'], ['Despite the aforementioned challenges, Nahom remains optimistic that the coming year will be more productive. He said, “There are volunteer individuals and institutions who work exclusively on social corporate responsibilities to support us.” He mentioned the work of\xa0 Nazret school students who volunteered to assist the center with transferring records to a digital system during their school break.\xa0\xa0'], ['He said that the help received went a long way in easing the challenges faced by the center during the pandemic. He said,” In recent years, financial institutions are playing a very important role in carrying out their social responsibility.”'], ['Nahom also noted the role universities’ referral hospitals played in easing the burden on the center. He said, “Our center signed a memorandum of understanding to work with Hawassa and Gonder universities. We are preparing to sign with an MoU Jigjiga and Arsi universities,” he added, “Working with the universities is an opportunity for us since they have their own annual budget. It also eases the shortage of medical equipment and they can be imported easily through governmental supply chains.”\xa0'], ['Moreover, he explained that the center is focused on building a high-end cardiac center, securing all needed medical equipment, securing enough human resources, and ensuring the sustainability of the center. He said, “For the last 10 years we have been working on securing the sustainability of the center,” added, “One of the projects that will ensure sustainability is the health apartments in which will cost us 25% of the total annual budget of the center. Most of the medical equipment and consumable goods are covered by donations.”\xa0'], ['Nahom underscored, “Even after our center is fully operational, it is not enough for the whole country. We need at least two or three such centers. As public relations, we are working on different income-generating mechanisms. We have already opened accounts in several commercial banks for direct donations from the diaspora.”\xa0'], ['According to Nahom, three years ago, the children’s Heart Fund of Ethiopia assigned prominent actress Meseret Mebrate as the center’s Goodwill ambassador. She has been promoting the center countrywide and abroad. During her recent travels to the United States, Meseret raised 6,000,000 ETB and linked medical and non-medical professionals with the center to provide material support in a sustainable way.AS']]}, {'Date': 'January 5, 2022', 'Header': 'News: Ethiopia lifts suspension on Norwegian Refugee Council', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – The Norwegian Refugee Council (NRC) said it “has been informed by the Ethiopian authorities that the five-month long suspension on its humanitarian work has been lifted.” On August 04 last year, Ethiopia’s Agency for Civil Society announced the temporary suspension of MSF Holland, the Norwegian Refugee Council and Al-Maktoume humanitarian operations in Ethiopia.'], ['“The Authority for Civil Society Organizations (ACSO) ordered the suspension at the end of July citing the advocacy of NRC on humanitarian needs and access in the country, and a number of administrative issues relating to the organizations work. The board of ACSO prolonged the suspension at the end of October and asked further questions. NRC provided full and prompt answers and explanations to all allegations and questions made throughout the process. The Board lifted the suspension on 31 December and cleared the organization for most of the allegations made. It issued a “strict warning” to the organization referring to the advocacy of NRC and two administrative matters,” NRC said in a statement. '], ['“We are relieved that the suspension that temporarily discontinued our humanitarian work for hundreds of thousands of people in great need has been lifted,” said NRC Secretary General Jan Egeland.'], ['“We look forward to resume our many years of humanitarian operations for refugees in Ethiopia, and for people displaced by conflict and disasters. To restart our operations for people in great need, our competent and committed Ethiopian and international staff urgently require the same basic operational freedoms that we enjoy everywhere else in the world. We look forward to renew our dialogue with the government and will seek the urgently needed permits, visas and green lights needed to ensure that we can properly resume our work and deliver aid wherever it is needed.'], ['“It is heart-breaking that we were unable to reach our target of serving more than half a million in need across Ethiopia in 2021. Now that we have to restart, it will take time to again reach as many people as we did before the suspension. We have lost many of our staff, we urgently need permits for our international staff to return, and we need to be able to pay our suppliers.'], ['“Our commitment remains unchanged towards serving the refugees and internally displaced people in Ethiopia.\xa0 We will continue to work with local, national and international partners to provide aid and protection according to international humanitarian law and principles,” Egeland said.']]}, {'Date': 'January 5, 2022', 'Header': 'HRW: “Returned Tigrayans detained, abused”; says KSA “should stop deporting Tigrayan migrants to Ethiopia”', 'news_paragraphs': [['“Saudi Arabia Should Stop Deporting Tigrayan Migrants to Ethiopia” HRW'], ['Addis Abeba – Ethiopian authorities have arbitrarily detained, mistreated, and forcibly disappeared thousands of ethnic Tigrayans recently deported from Saudi Arabia, Human Rights Watch said today. Saudi Arabia should stop holding Tigrayans in abhorrent conditions and deporting them to Ethiopia, and instead help the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) to provide them with international protection.'], ['Ethiopian authorities have transferred Tigrayan deportees from Saudi Arabia to reception centers in Addis Abeba, Ethiopia’s capital, where some were being unlawfully held. The Ethiopian authorities have also apprehended Tigrayan deportees at checkpoints on the roads to Tigray or at the Semera airport in the Afar region and transferred them to detention facilities in Afar or southern Ethiopia.'], ['“Tigrayan migrants who have experienced horrific abuse in Saudi custody are being locked up in detention facilities upon returning to Ethiopia,” said Nadia Hardman, refugee and migrant rights researcher at Human Rights Watch. “Saudi Arabia should offer protection to Tigrayans at risk, while Ethiopia should release all arbitrarily detained Tigrayan deportees.”'], ['Various factors, including unemployment and other economic difficulties, drought, and human rights abuses, have driven hundreds of thousands of Ethiopians to migrate over the past decade, traveling by boat across the Red Sea and then by land through Yemen to Saudi Arabia.'], ['In January 2021, the Ethiopian government announced it would cooperate in the repatriation of 40,000 of its nationals detained in Saudi Arabia, beginning with a 1,000 a week. Forty percent of the returnees from Saudi Arabia between November 2020 and June 2021 were Tigrayan.'], ['Deportations increased significantly between late June and mid-July, with over 30,000 reportedly deported. The surge in repatriations coincided with an increase in profiling, arbitrary detentions, and forcible disappearances of Tigrayans by Ethiopian authorities in Addis Abeba following the withdrawal of Ethiopian federal forces from the Tigray region and an expansion of the Tigray conflict.'], ['Human Rights Watched interviewed 23 Tigrayans – 20 men and 3 women – who were deported from Saudi Arabia between December 2020 and September 2021, with the majority deported between June and August 2021, and subsequently detained in Ethiopia between April and September. Deportees were held in facilities throughout Ethiopia: in centers in Addis Abeba; in Semera, Afar region; in Shone, Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples’ Region; and in Jimma, Oromia region. Human Rights Watch sent letters with queries to the Ethiopian National Disaster Risk Management Commission, the Federal Police Commission, the Saudi Arabian Embassy in Washington, DC, the Saudi Arabian Human Rights Council, and the Saudi Arabian Ministry of Interior, but has received no responses.'], ['Please find the full report by HRW here']]}, {'Date': 'January 1, 2022', 'Header': 'Analysis: Ethiopia reeling from gender based violence due to war in Tigray, Amhara and Afar', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Etenesh Abera @EteneshAb\xa0'], ['Addis Abeba, January1/ 2022 – Since the beginning of the war in Tigray in November last year, more than 1,300 incidents of rape have been reported, while many argue that more cases went unreported due to societal stigma surrounding the topic. A high number of cases of gender-based violence including gang-rape and other atrocities were reported in the period of the conflict.\xa0The damage and looting of health care facilities in Tigray, Amhara and Afar regions made it worse for the victims impeding the provision of comprehensive after care. '], ['According to the UN,\xa0 violence against women rises during crises, conflicts and by 2021 one out of every three women have reported being abused during their lifetime. Last November, the Ethiopian Human Rights Commission and Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) published a joint investigation into alleged violations of international human rights in the ongoing conflict in the Tigray region. The report revealed that all the fighting forces including Ethiopian and Eritrean forces were involved in crimes designated as gender-based violence with young and elderly women facing incidents of gang rape.\xa0'], ['Moreover, a newer report published by Amnesty International also said that in Amhara regional state, Nefas Mewecha during the period between August 12 to 21, 70 women reported to regional authorities that they are raped by armed forces loyal to Tigray People Liberation Front (TPLF).Addis Standard spoke to Siyane Aniley, a Ph.D. candidate at the Center for Comparative Education and Policy studies Addis Abeba University. She explained, “GBV is any sort of harm (could be physical, psychological, sexual, or economic) experienced as a result of being a woman/ girl or a man/ boy. GBV against women and girls is rampant as a result of the patriarchal power structure in the global order as well as local context.”\xa0'], ['The Ph.D. candidate went further to explain, “The severity of GBV may increase as layers of disadvantage (poverty, family situation, rural-urban, education, etc) intersect, and are shaped by a context.” According to Siyane amidst war, conflict, and displacement, studies around the world show that GBV will only get worse as the protective system becomes less functional as resources are diverted towards managing the crisis.\xa0'], ['She argued that despite the paucity of research conducted, in times of active war like the context of Ethiopia, patterns show that women remain the primary victims of sexual violence and added that it could be perpetrated by both the national army and rebel groups. She said, “These acts are also used as a weapon of war.”\xa0'], ['Siyane went on to explain that even in the case of IDPs, GBV occurs through familiar or unknown individuals and groups, including IDP camp staff who devise exploitative acts in exchange for economic incentives.\xa0'], ['She added that harmful traditional practices such as FGM and early marriage increase as perpetrators include family members, and the absence of safe networks that include institutions in place such as schools, health centers, police, and local administrations become inactive to protect vulnerable girls due to the worsening security crisis.\xa0'], ['Siyane argued that most instances of GBV remain unreported. She said, ”The GBV crisis in Ethiopia is not well studied, reported, or well documented. This, I believe, is due to the distorted objective of the reporting and documenting, focusing on who is more brutal.”\xa0'], ['Reports of GBV in the ongoing war in Ethiopia according to Siyane are weaponized as propaganda tools.\xa0 “Numbers reported by civil societies and human rights advocates are only meant to portray which party is more brutal. The parties involved in the conflict are also reporting instances of GBV only with the aim of criminalizing each other.”'], ['Speaking about healing mechanisms to be provided to GBV survivors Siyane insisted on the importance of involving stakeholders. She said, ”I believe the role of civil society organizations in this emergency context is irreplaceable. Enabling local health workers to address the psychological and physical needs, including Sexual and Reproductive Health and Rights (SRHR) services to the survivors is crucial.\xa0 To heal the visible (Physical, and economic) and invisible (PTSD, and depression) wounds of violence, it is important to engage the community in community-based/ led healing with the help of experts, as it has proven impactful in other countries experiences. Schools are also a safe space to heal children who went through war and displacement trauma through play, counseling, and child-friendly school environments.”\xa0But Siyane thinks that starting early, teaching young boys and girls about gender equality, consent, respect, and diversity both at home and at school remains paramount. She said, “Capacitating schools to be safe spaces for girls and boys, encouraging GBV reporting systems, linking schools with health and legal services, making the best out of mass media and social media to advocate against GBV, promoting men’s engagement in the works against GBV in every intervention, building and strengthening women associations, girls clubs so their rights can be advocated for their rights.”\xa0'], ['She concluded, “In times of crisis, including GBV as a major emergency response area, supporting research on GBV in the context of war, conflict, and displacement would go a long way to address similar issues in the future.” AS']]}, {'Date': 'December 24, 2021', 'Header': '#ASDailyScoop: Japan provides US$ 12.4 million in emergency grant aid for northern Ethiopia', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba – On December 24, the Government of Japan decided to extend Emergency Grant Aid of 12.4 million US dollars for people in the Northern Ethiopia, Japan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs said.'], ['The grant is to provide humanitarian assistance in the provision of relief items such as shelter and food through the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), World Food Programme (WFP), International Organization for Migration (IOM), and United Nations Mine Action Service (UNMAS), inter alia, the internally displaced persons, among others, in Afar, Amhara and Tigray regional states.'], ['It is expected to cover the provisions of food supply to 270,000 people; relief items to 19,000 households; emergency shelter and non-food items to 14,000 households (69,000 people); dignity kits to 10,000 women; information on return and other long-term solutions to 25,000 people; protection counseling service for 7,000 people; treatment support for 2,000 persons with disabilities and older persons; and explosive ordnance risk education for 10,000 people, the statement said, adding that “the Government of Japan will continue to work with the international community for peace and stability in Ethiopia.” AS']]}]
[{'Date': 'December 23, 2021', 'Header': 'News: Ethiopia interrupts river blindness transmission in three more districts in Oromia; more than half a million people no longer need mass drug administration', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba, December 23,2021– Onchocerciasis, also known as river blindness, is one of the neglected tropical diseases targeted for elimination by 2030. It is caused by\xa0Onchocerca volvulus,\xa0a parasitic worm that causes skin disease and vision loss and is transmitted from person to person through the bites of infected blood-sucking black flies, which breed around rapidly flowing rivers. In Ethiopia, Onchocerciasis control was started in 2001 with annual drug distribution to members of endemic communities and it was shifted to an elimination effort in 2013 to get rid of the parasite throughout Ethiopia.'], ['Ethiopia declared its first major success against river blindness in Amhara, where it was possible to stop drug distribution in six districts in the cross border Metema-Galabat focus in 2018.\xa0 This coordinated cross-border collaboration between Ethiopia and Sudan has freed over one million people from risk of onchocerciasis since 2018 (the countries’ Metema-Galabat announcements are hyperlinked, respectively).'], ['The Ethiopia Onchocerciasis Elimination Expert Advisory Committee (EOEEAC), during its 8th\xa0annual meeting held virtually from October 26-28, 2021, recommended second area where drug distribution could be stopped in Ethiopia, this time in Oromia region (Tiro Afeta, Chora Botor and Limu Kosa districts). Serological blood tests in humans and examination of black flies for parasites showed no significant infections and were below the World Health Organization (WHO) cut-off.\xa0 The Ministry of Health (MoH) accepted the EOEEAC recommendation, and, as a result, 508,000 people no longer need mass drug administration (MDA) with ivermectin.\xa0 These three districts now enter the next and very important phase of post-treatment surveillance (PTS) for 3-5 years to be sure that the infection does not recur. During the PTS period, health education, advocacy, and surveillance activities will continue; if there is no evidence of recrudescence or reinfection, these areas will move to the post-elimination surveillance (PES) phase.\xa0'], ['The Ministry of Health thanks and acknowledges all partners and stakeholders, namely: the Ethiopian Public Health Institute (EPHI), The Carter Center, Lions Clubs International Foundation (LCIF), the Ethiopia Lions Clubs, the Reaching the Last Mile Fund administered by the END Fund, Light for the World, USAID-RTI-ACT to END NTDs, the University of South Florida, WHO-ESPEN and the\xa0late Most Honorable\xa0World Laureate Dr.\xa0Tebebe\xa0Yemane Berhan. Dispatch']]}, {'Date': 'December 21, 2021', 'Header': 'Analysis: Members of Amhara community flee violence in East Wollega zone; seek refuge in Addis Abeba', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Getahun Tsegaye @GetahunTsegay12\xa0'], ['Addis Abeba, December 21, 2021 – Earlier in November Addis Standard received reports that members of the Amhara community fleeing the East Wollega in Oromia region were seeking refuge in some places in Addis Abeba. The shelters were said to be located in Kolfe Keranio sub city\xa0 commonly known as Asko, Zenebe Work where the IDPs sheltered in makeshift camps set up in a church compound and youth centers.\xa0'], ['One of the centers, a youth center located in the Asko area, was home to about several IDPs including women and children. Awraris (name changed upon request), a resident of East Wollega zone explained that initially there were a total of 72 IDPs that the youth center volunteered to provide shelter and ration for a week. He said, “It was the local community who has been giving us food, mattress, blankets and bed sheets.” He added, “Out of the 72 people, almost half of them went to their relatives in Addis Abeba while the rest of us were stranded here. The greatest problem we are facing right now is shelter.”\xa0\xa0'], ['Earlier this year, the Ethiopian Human Rights Commission (EHRC) in a press release expressed its grave concerns following the killing and displacement of residents in Gida Kiramu Woreda. The EHRC indicated its information provided from residents that accused ‘OLA/Shane’ armed militants of violence of communal nature that claimed 150 lives on August 20, 2021. The statement detailed that as a result of such violence, residents, especially women and children fled to neighboring areas to the Amhara region and to Kiramu town.\xa0'], ['“Out of the 72 people, almost half of them went to their relatives in Addis Abeba while the rest of us were stranded here.” '], ['Melkamu Enkosa, the manager of Asko Youth Center told Addis Standard , “The IDPs were sheltered at Asko youth center for about a week,” he continued, “But tenants of the youth center complained of inconvenience due to the presence of IDPs,\xa0 we told the IDPs to look for other options to stay and they evacuated the facility.”\xa0'], ['Melkamu and his colleagues notified both the executive committee and the peace and security of woreda 05 of the Kolfe Keranio sub city about the presence of IDPs and asked for assistance. He said, “We reported the issue to the concerned bodies and are awaiting their responses.” The Addis Abeba city administration however was not aware of the issue. The head of the communication bureau Yonas Zewde first said, “We’ll investigate the situation and will let you know.” Upon further contact he referred the question to the respective woreda explaining yet again that the city administration is not aware of the issue.\xa0'], ['The IDPs have now been moved to a compound where they were provided with food and other necessary items by the local community, Awraris said. He added that the rent is covered by a local businessman. Addis Standard confirmed that about 50 people still reside in that compound without being communicated by any government bodies so far.\xa0The IDPs refused to discuss the conditions of their displacement citing fear for their security as a reason. “We fear that we will be forced back,” Awraris said.\xa0'], ['“They were resettled to other areas in the East Wollega zone.”'], ['Another location where members of the Amhara community were reportedly displaced from East Wollega were sheltered is Abuna Aregawi church in ZenebeWork neighborhood in the Kolfe Keranio sub city.\xa0Addis Standard spoke with Melake Mariam Mengistu, the head of the church who said, “There were about 120 IDPs of Amhara ethnic background from East Wollega that were sheltered in the church for two weeks. With the help of the federal government, Oromia Regional Government and the Amhara regional government, they have been relocated to a better place.” Without disclosing the exact new location, he added, “They were resettled to other areas in the East Wollega zone.”\xa0'], ['Furthermore, Addis Standard spoke to head of the public relations department at the National Disaster Risk Management Commission (NDRMC) who declined to offer any comments and said, “The Oromia Disaster and Risk Management Commission should answer this question.“ However, repeated attempts to speak to the head of Oromia regional state disaster and risk management office were not successful.\xa0'], ['Daniel Bekele (PhD), EHRC Chief Commissioner, urged the Oromia regional security forces to coordinate with the federal government to ensure the safety of the residents of East Wollega. He also called on the Oromia regional government and the federal government to investigate the incident, saying that “In particular, the deployment and operation of the security forces in the area should be properly investigated.” AS']]}, {'Date': 'December 21, 2021', 'Header': 'News: 22 million people in Ethiopia estimated to require humanitarian assistance in 2022: UN', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba, December 21/2021 – Humanitarian needs remain high in several parts of Ethiopia with at least 20 million people requiring some form of humanitarian assistance until the end of the year, the UNOCHA latest report said.'], ['In northern Ethiopia (Afar, Amhara, Tigray regions), the number of people depending on emergency food assistance has increased from 8.1 million in August as indicated in the 2021 Humanitarian Response Plan Mid-Year Review to an estimated 9.4 million in November according to WFP assessment. '], ['Due to the effects of the ongoing conflict, the Amhara Region registered the largest increase with 3.7 million people in urgent need of assistance. The humanitarian needs in Ethiopia are expected to remain high through 2021 and into 2022 due to conflict, drought, flooding, disease outbreaks and desert locust infestation. According to the Global Humanitarian Overview released in early December, an estimated 22.3 million people will be targeted for humanitarian assistance in Ethiopia in 2022. '], ['The Global Humanitarian Overview is an annual document that provides a snapshot of acute crises around the world as well as projected future trend. It aims, amongst others, to support large-scale resource mobilization effort. '], ['The continuous drought-like condition in the south of Oromia and Somali regions is of particular concern. According to a recent analysis1 from the Famine Early Warning System Network (FEWS NET), the levels of acute food security in crisis phase and emergency phase (IPC Phase 3 and Phase 4 respectively) are currently high in southern and eastern Ethiopia. This is explained by the consecutive failed rains in the affected areas since late 2020, namely, poor rainy season in October-December 2020 followed by poor rainy season in March-May 2021 and an extremely dry October-December 2021 season. As a result, pastoralist and agro-pastoralist communities in these areas are suffering from acute water shortage, failed harvest and deteriorating livestock body conditions, which led to reduced income and food stock. '], ['According to Ethiopia’s National Central Statistics Agency for example, goat prices in October were about 35 per cent lower than 12 months earlier in southeastern regions, due to poor animal body conditions. According to FEWS NET’s: “livestock herd model suggests goat and sheep herd sizes could drop to 20-50 per cent below normal […] in several pastoral livelihood zones. In a worst-case scenario […] excess livestock mortality would further accelerate in the subsequent January/February 2022 dry season”. Livestock migration to better-off areas in search of water and pasture has also been reported. '], ['Early action to prevent the worst impact of drought as well as scaling-up current response are critical. In a joint press statement3 on 7 December, the World Food Program (WFP) and the President of the Somali Region H.E. Mustafa Omer warned that up to 3.3 million people in the region will fall into acute hunger in the next three months if drought response measures are not taken urgently to reverse the deepening food insecurity and malnutrition. Some 2.2 million people are currently facing water shortage and need water trucking support and 173,000 malnourished children under five years and pregnant and breastfeeding women require nutritional support. Somali regional authorities announced that 200 million Ethiopia Birr (approximately US$4.2 million) were approved to support for humanitarian response activities, including water trucking and the provision of animal feed but urgent additional funding is required to avert the worst of the drought impact. '], [' The OCHA-managed Ethiopia Humanitarian Fund (EHF) is currently finalizing its second standard allocation that would partly provide critical life-saving assistance to most acutely vulnerable groups affected by the drought in Somali and Oromia regions. The US$2 million allocation will focus on integrated health and nutrition interventions. Special attention will be given to children under five years, pregnant and lactating women, people with disability and elders. In parallel and in complement, the Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) had allocated earlier in June $5 million for drought response in Oromia and Somali region focusing on Health, Nutrition and WASH sectors; while another $5 million has recently been allocated for specific drought responses in the same geographical areas for WASH and agriculture activities, which are just starting. '], [' Currently, there are an estimated four million internally displaced people (IDPs) across Ethiopia, the majority of whom were forced to leave their homes due to conflict in search of safety and assistance. This is an increase from the 2.7 million estimated IDPs as of early February 2021 according to the 2021 Humanitarian Needs Overview (HNO). '], ['At least 60 per cent of the IDPs in the country are living within host communities. Amongst the recent displacements reported across the country is the IDP influx from western Tigray since the last week of November. A multi-sector assessment conducted by humanitarian partners on 24 November indicated that more than 10,000 people have arrived in Dedebit Town in North-Western Tigray. This number continued to grow since the assessment. The displaced people are mostly women, children, elderly, and sick people, who fled Western Tigray with no or limited supplies. Humanitarian partners have kick-started multisectoral humanitarian response following the assessment, including food, water trucking, sanitation and hygiene non-food items, although the response is hampered by operational constraints. '], ['Similarly, large scale displacement continues to be reported from conflict-affected areas in Amhara Region due to ongoing insecurities. As of the end of September, more than 542,000 people were displaced in Amhara, and more than 255,000 people were displaced in Afar. Please see the latest Northern Ethiopia Situation Report.\xa0Dispatch ']]}, {'Date': 'December 20, 2021', 'Header': 'News: France Donates One Million Eight Hundred J&J Covid-19 Vaccines to Ethiopia via Covax', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba, December\xa017/2021\xa0–\xa0\xa0The French Government donated 1,000, 800 doses of Johnson and Johnson covid-19 vaccines to Ethiopia, that will be delivered on December 17th\xa0in Addis-Abeba, through Covax mechanism.'], ['This donation comes in addition to the 843 600 AstraZeneca vaccine doses already donated by France in July (391 200) and October (452 400) via Covax, in partnership with the African Union and its African Vaccine Acquisition Trust (AVAT) initiative, for the second one.'], ['Committed to vaccine solidarity, France supports the important efforts of the Ethiopian Government to accelerate its national covid-19 vaccination campaign. These donations are part of a global commitment from the French Government, which made covid-19 vaccine doses sharing a key priority of its global response, in order to help increase vaccine cover on a global scale. To fight this pandemic that affects us all, solidarity remains our best weapon.'], ['France was the first country to share covid-19 doses through Covax last April and has since then committed to donate 120 million vaccines doses by mid-2022, among which 75,6 million doses have already been donated. These donations are made up of the same vaccines used by France in its own vaccination campaign – Astra Zeneca, Pfizer, Janssen and Moderna – and will enable to vaccinate at least the equivalent of the French population (67 million people). Most of French donations are made through Covax, a multilateral framework including key partners such as Gavi and UNICEF, to ensure fair and effective access to safe vaccines.\xa0Dispatch']]}, {'Date': 'December 6, 2021', 'Header': 'News: WFP warns that millions could fall deeper into hunger as it faces ‘major funding shortfall’ in Ethiopia', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Addis Standard Staff'], ['Addis Abeba, December 6, 2021- The United Nations World Food Programme said in a statement that its ability to meet the critical food and nutrition needs of millions of people in Ethiopia due to shortage of funding. WFP said it has a funding gap of US$579 million to deliver life-saving food assistance and livelihood support activities to 12 million people in Ethiopia including US$316 million that is urgently needed to deliver emergency food and nutrition assistance to 3.7 million people in northern Ethiopia over the next six months.'], ['According to the statement, an estimated 13.6 million people are food insecure due to\xa0 effects of conflict, drought, flooding, desert locust invasions, market disruptions and high food prices, and the COVID-19\xa0 pandemic. Dr. Steven Were Omamo, WFP representative and country director added, “In addition to the severe challenges facing conflict-impacted populations in many regions, we are deeply concerned about climate-related vulnerability and food insecurity in dry lowland areas.” Dr. Omamo cautioned against the possibility of millions falling into severe hunger and hardship by early next year if WFP doesn’t receive commitments of new funding in the coming weeks to mobilise the food that is available in the country.'], ['“In northern Ethiopia, the food security situation in all three regions of Afar, Amhara and Tigray is already critical and will worsen if conflict-induced interruptions to humanitarian aid continue,” the WFP said, adding, “The impacts of ongoing conflict – including continued disruption to trade flows and minimal economic activity – will come on top of already significant losses to food and income.”\xa0'], ['The WFP also spoke of rising needs which the level of funding is failing to keep up with. This according to the statement forced ration cuts for some 710,000 refugees across the country and 2.4 million food insecure people in the Somali region. “Refugees are now receiving 60 percent of the required kilocalories per person/day while food insecure families in the Somali region are receiving 10 percent less cereal per person, per month.”\xa0'], ['The statement detailed that the Government of Ethiopia, WFP, and other partners are struggling to alleviate the country’s hunger crisis amid intensifying drought causing significant livestock losses, wiping out fragile livelihoods, and worsening food insecurity through mid-2022 in\xa0 Ethiopia’s southern and south eastern pastoral areas who are facing a third consecutive below-average rainfall season. AS']]}]
[{'Date': 'December 6, 2021', 'Header': 'News: Weeklong secondary schools closure starts today to dispatch students to help with harvesting', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Addis Standard\xa0'], ['Addis Abeba, December 6, 2021- The Ministry of Education last week announced its decision to close all secondary schools so students can harvest crops for those on the frontline of the war. The ministry defended its decision citing the need for the education sector to contribute to the success of the ongoing national campaign. The campaign kicks off today and closure will last for one week, according to the MoE.\xa0'], ['The ministry also said it made the decision after discussion with senior officials of the ministry as well as heads of regional and city administration education bureaus. Following this decision, teachers, students and employees of schools will be engaged in volunteering campaigns.\xa0'], ['The volunteer activities include collecting harvest and fundraising for members of the military and allied forces, assisting families of those on the frontline and blood donation. The campaign covers all regions with the participation of high school teachers and students and will last until December 12. The days spent on the campaign will be recompense through programs arranged by the schools , the ministry said.\xa0'], ['The minister of education, Birhanu Nega (PhD) said, “It is impossible to live without a country and everyone has a responsibility to protect their country. The education sector must fulfill its national responsibilities.” The minister called on students and the community in the education sector to fulfill their national duty by participating in activities such as fund raising, blood donation and preparing food items for the military.\xa0'], ['This comes a week after the\xa0 State Minister of Education Dr. Samuel Kifle said more than 1.2 million students were out of school due to the ongoing war in northern Ethiopia. The State Minister also said that it is necessary to reverse the war in a short period of time and focus on the next education system. AS']]}, {'Date': 'December 2, 2021', 'Header': 'News: Ministry of Mines gives 50 m birr collected from mining & oil companies to Somali state', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba, December 02/2021 – Takele Uma, the Minister of Mines said the ministry has donated 50 million birr collected from mining and oil companies operating in the Somali regional state to the regional president Mustefa Omer.  '], ['The overriding principle of mining development is inclusivity and community engagement. pic.twitter.com/FuM3XxBaut'], [' The 50 million birr the ministry gave to the Somali regional state will  be used to build infrastructure facilities in the region including  schools and health facilities '], ['In a Facebook message Minister Takele posted, he said that mining is a national and public resource, he said, minerals wealth is national and public resource and therefore communities should the main beneficiaries. “Communities in the mining areas should also benefit from the mineral and oil resources through employment opportunities and other means,” Minister Takele said. '], ['The 50 million birr the ministry gave to the Somali regional state will be used to build infrastructure facilities in the region including schools and health facilities, Takele said.'], ['#Ethiopia: The new formula for revenue share b/n federal & regional states from oil exploration incomes: revenue share will be 50% for federal gov. & 50% for a given regional state where the resource is found. Of the 50% federal revenue, 25% will be disbursed to other regions. pic.twitter.com/Iyn6OnaQ5v'], ['In October 2019, Dr Kuang Tutlan, then State Minister of Mines & Petroleum said a new formula was being devised outlining revenue share between the federal government and regional states where oil exploration incomes are generated from. According to Dr. Kunag, the revenue share formula will see 50% share for the federal government and the remaining 50% will be disbursed to a given regional state where the resource is found.  Out of the 50% revenue to be disbursed for a given region where the resource is found, 10% of it will be allocated for the specific area where the resources is found, while the remaining 40% of it will be for other parts of the region including the specific area where resource is found. Out of the 50% federal revenue, the 25% will be disbursed to other regional states, Dr Kuang Tutlan said at the time.  '], ['Dr Kuang  also said at the time time some 4,000 barrels were supplied to markets from the gas field in in Ogaden of Somali regional state. Ethiopia was also preparing to commence the construction of 760-km crude oil pipeline from Ogaden to Djibouti in 2019, a project that has not been undertaken as planned. AS ']]}, {'Date': 'December 1, 2021', 'Header': 'Analysis: Oromia region struggling to curb worsening food crisis in drought hit East Bale Zone amid continued donation to battlefront', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Dereje Gonfa @DerejeGonfa\xa0'], ['Addis Abeba, December 1/2021 – Oromia region reported drought and death of thousands of cattle mainly in the Borana zone where people in several woredas in the zone suffered from severe food shortages resulting in death. The Bale zone, unlike Borana while suffering from drought, received an underwhelming response from the government in addressing the issue in the backdrop of continued donations to the battlefront. Residents of the East Bale zone spoke to Addis Standard about their conditions detailing the severity of the drought coupled with inflation, desert locust invasion and the mismanagement thereof. Meanwhile, the Oromia regional government has been indulging in donations to other regional states as well as to the Ethiopian National Defense Forces (ENDF).\xa0\xa0'], ['Haji Aman Hussien, a resident in Sawena woreda, explained that\xa0 pastoralist households are faced with shortage of food, “The drought has killed cattle and the remaining are weak, unable to move without human assistance.” Arbi Hussein, an elderly resident of Dawe Sarar woreda who has witnessed multiple dry seasons explained, “This drought is different because people are equally hungry as the cattle,” he added, “This coupled with the limited assistance that is only reaching a small number of individuals will not give us relief.”'], [' “This drought is different because people are equally hungry as the cattle.” '], ['The Oromia regional state recently donated over 3500 head of livestock to the military, according to the former head of office of Oromia Prosperity Party (OPP) in July.\xa0 The East Bale Zone participated in donations to the ENDF, sending about 400 head of livestock while the women in the area prepared meals for the soldiers in August. \xa0Most recently Sawena, one of the woredas in the zone, posted on its government communication bureau facebook page claiming to\xa0 have donated Eight million ETB to the ENDF adding the women in the woreda prepared 440,00 ETB worth of food stock, an information Addis Standard’s repeated attempts to verify from local officials were to no avail.\xa0'], ['The East Bale zone also sent its young people to the front, where 600 youth joined the ENDF in September alone. Haji testified that the youth is resorting to joining the military, rather than dying of hunger, “The elderly, women and children are left behind. We do not have anywhere to go.”\xa0'], [' The East Bale Zone participated in donations to the ENDF, sending about 400 head of livestock . '], ['Revealing another sphere of the impact on the community, Sadam Usman, a resident of Beltu town in Laga Hidha woreda, explained “In addition to drought, there is a lack of security and good governance which is driving inflation. This inflation is worsening impact of the drought.” Sadam expressed disappointment at the little attention given to the crisis in East Bale which resulted in slowing down the assistance needed to ensure famine from occurring. He argued that the number of people facing hunger keeps on increasing.\xa0'], ['Repeated invasions of desert locust added to the problem, according to residents, destroying the stock of crops. Residents also said that the desert locust is reappearing, further speaking of attempts to control the invasion destroying bee hives which is another source of income for many in the zone famous for producing honey.'], ['Attempts to control locust invasion destroyed bee hives, another source of income for many in the zone which is famous for producing honey.\xa0'], ['Haji said, “In the past when drought occurred, people resorted to beekeeping. We eat honey and we sell it. Now we don’t have that as well. Because the chemical sprayed for the desert locust killed the bees as well. ” As report indicates late December of last year chemicals were sprayed to contain the desert locust in Bale and East Bale zones.\xa0'], ['Addis Standard made several attempts to reach the administrator of East Bale zone, Adam Qasim for who refused to comment unless contacted in person. However, Ahmed Hassan, the administrator of Dawe Sarar woreda, one of the affected woredas in the zone, told Addis Standard, “Due to shortage of fodder and shortage of water around 30,000 people are in need of immediate assistance.”'], ['According to Ahmed Hassan, the shortage of rainfall created famine-like conditions in Dawe Qacha, Sawena, Rayitu and Gololcha woredas. Ahmed explained how the shortage of rain led to shortage of water and fodder,\xa0 “Now both people and the cattle are suffering.” He also detailed efforts to save the lives of cattle by providing water and fodder.\xa0'], [' “Due to shortage of fodder and shortage of water around 30,000 people are in need of immediate assistance.” '], ['According to Ahmed, a bidding process\xa0 to provide water with trucks is underway. He added, “For a lasting solution we are planning to work on water projects.” The administrator of Dawe Sarar woreda insists that the regional government efforts will bear fruit. He said, “We are working to provide support focused on preventing death from hunger.”\xa0\xa0'], ['On his part, Geremew Olika, the deputy commissioner of Oromia disaster prevention commission, told Addis Standard that more than 270,000 people are affected by the drought. He added “We are distributing 6807 Quintals of food to people and aiming to reach all affected people.” According to Geremew, more than Two million people need immediate assistance as the drought struck across East Bale, East and West Hararghe, both Guji zones, Borana and other areas.\xa0'], ['” More than Two million people need immediate assistance as the drought struck across East Bale, East and West Hararghe, both Guji zones, Borana and other areas.”  '], ['Civil societies and farmers unions remain worried despite promises by zonal and regional officials. Gemechis Hamdisha, co-ordinator of the farmers cooperative union at Sawena, said the scale of the crisis unfolding in Bale is huge and it requires urgent and large-scale assistance. He said, “The number of people facing food shortage is increasing periodically. There is no emergency relief support reaching here, we are anticipating the worst.”'], ['According a report by the Food Security and Nutrition Working Group (FSNWG), which is co-chaired by the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), “Vulnerable communities in the IGAD region continue to experience a complex mix of reinforcing shocks and stresses that are eroding their resilience to food and nutrition insecurity. As of October 2021, 26 million people were already facing high levels of food insecurity (IPC Phase 3+), the report said.\xa0\xa0'], ['Addis Standard made several attempts to reach out to the head of Oromia communication bureau, Hailu Adugna who declined to comment saying, “We don’t consider Addis Standard as an independent media.” AS']]}, {'Date': 'December 1, 2021', 'Header': 'News: WHO donates 3,000 oxygen cylinders to Ethiopian Public Health Institute to boost COVID-19 treatment centers', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba, December 01/2021 – On 30 November 2021, the World Health Organization (WHO) delivered to the Ethiopian Public Health Institute (EPHI) 500 of the 3,000 oxygen cylinders procured for the institute to improve access to oxygen for critical care and strengthen the oxygen capacity of health facilities providing COVID-19 treatment services.\xa0'], ['“As COVID-19 continues to be a major public health concern causing severe illness and death in Ethiopia, it is imperative that we join hands with the government including through the provision of critical equipment and supplies to support every aspect of pandemic response,” said Dr Jane Maina, Officer in Charge of the WHO Ethiopia Emergency Preparedness and Response programme.\xa0'], ['As countries go through waves of the pandemic, hospitalizations overwhelm health systems, putting an enormous burden on health workers and disrupting essential health services. Patients needing critical care will have to wait in line to receive life-saving interventions due to shortages created from case surge. WHO is making this donation of oxygen cylinders to mitigate such overwhelming challenges to the Ethiopian health system and reduce complications and death from COVID-19 and other life-threatening conditions.\xa0'], ['Mr Aschalew Abayneh, Deputy Director General of EPHI and National COVID-19 Incident Manager, appreciated WHO’s continued technical, financial and material support in the country’s response to COVID-19. “The continuous donations from WHO have demonstrated the organization’s determination and commitment to fight the pandemic and build a community with a shared future for Ethiopia,” He said. “The donated cylinders will help hospitals provide the life-saving care their patients need, and ensure that patients will have access to uninterrupted oxygen while receiving treatment.”'], ['The 3,000 oxygen cylinders were procured at a total cost of 53,618,355 Ethiopian birr, equivalent to 1,134,789 US dollars. The first batch of 500 cylinders was delivered at the handing-over ceremony today and the remaining 2,500 cylinders will be delivered in batches over the next couple of months.WHO remains committed to supporting the Government of Ethiopia’s efforts to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 by enhancing prevention measures, supporting COVID-19 vaccination, and helping improve case management. The organization will continue to work with the government in strengthening the delivery of essential health services as well as response to the various health and humanitarian emergencies in the country alongside the response to COVID-19. Dispatch ']]}, {'Date': 'November 29, 2021', 'Header': 'News: More than 1.2 million students out of school due to ongoing war in Ethiopia: Ministry', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba, November 29/2021 – State Minister of Education Dr. Samuel Kifle said more than 1.2 million students were out of school due to the ongoing war in northern Ethiopia.\xa0'], ['According to the information available to the Ministry a little over a month ago, more than 1,600 schools teaching grades One to 12 were damaged whereas 300 were completely destroyed. Four universities in Tigray, as well as Woldiya university in Amhara regional state have been shut down, Dr. Samuel said. He further said works have been done to transfer the students and teachers from these universities to other universities.'], ['The State Minister also said that it is necessary to reverse the war in a short period of time and focus on the next education system.'], ['The Ministry of Education will be working to restore the schools destroyed in the war, according to a statement from the Ministry. AS']]}]
[{'Date': 'November 26, 2021', 'Header': 'News: Addis Abeba University warns to take measures against graduate academics supporting TPLF; measures may include revocation of academic degrees', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba, November 26/2021 – Addis Ababa University (AAU) has issued warning against graduate academics to refrain from acts of supporting the TPLF. The University said the measures may extend up to revoking academic degrees of individuals who are found to be supporting the TPLF.'], ['The University also “condemned the TPLF’s atrocities against innocent people and its conspiracy to destroy the country,” according to state broadcaster EBC. '], ['Several academicians of university graduates from around the world have sided with Ethiopia in condemning the TPLF and its supporters, AAU said, adding that regardless of that, and disregarding the University age-old contribution to the country, some individuals showed no restraint in their support to the TPLF; they would be subject to legal actions, including the loss of their academic degrees, EBC said. '], ['Similarly, the university urged western countries to stop their undue pressure on Ethiopia and vowed that it will continue to intensify its contributions and struggle to save the country. The EBC reported the University has issued an eight point resolution. AS']]}, {'Date': 'November 17, 2021', 'Header': 'News: OCHA says humanitarian needs in Afar, Amhara regions rising amid ‘large- scale displacement’', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Addis Standard Staff'], ['Addis Abeba, November 17,2021- The United Nations Office Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) stated that the ongoing conflict in the Amhara Afar and Amhara regions have resulted in large-scale displacements from North Gonder, Wag Hemra, North and South Wello zones as well as in and around Dessie, Kombolcha, Baati and Kamissie. Thousands of people were also reportedly displaced from Chifra Woreda, Awsi Zone and in few locations in Ada`ar Woreda in Afar. According to the report,\xa0humanitarian needs, including emergency shelter, food, safe and clean drinking water, medicines and health services, dignity and hygiene kits for women, and protection services have increased following mass internal displacement.\xa0'], ['The OCHA report revealed that in Amhara region where majority of IDPs are women and children,\xa0 tens of thousands of IDPs have reportedly registered in Debre Berhan, with several sheltering in two schools in the city. Alternatively, some IDPs in Dessie and Kombolcha towns, who arrived from nearby Habru and Kutaber Woredas during the last few weeks, reportedly started to return to their places of origin, the report said.\xa0'], ['The impediment of the delivery of urgent humanitarian assistance was attributed to access constraints due to insecurity as well as the limited presence of humanitarian partners on the ground. Moreover, it was indicated in the report that electricity and telecommunications have been cut in Dessie and Kombolcha since 30 October and commercial flights to Kombolcha have been suspended since mid-October.\xa0'], ['In the Afar region, electricity and communications are\xa0 intermittent in Semera and Logia towns as the main transmitter in Kombolcha is out of use. The water supply has also been disrupted and supplies in stores are depleted with commercial supply lines having been disrupted, OCHA said. The Afar region also faces a\xa0 threat of Desert locust, according to a FAO recent report confirming the presence of immature swarms in the region. Desert locust survey and control operations remain compromised due to insecurity, the report said.\xa0\xa0'], ['The conflict also affected cattle farmers\xa0 in Afar and Amhara regions who rely on the markets for animal trade and food purchase, as stated in the report, they currently have no access to the market to sell their livestock and to buy food. “As a result, food prices have significantly increased while livestock prices have remained low due to low demand.” Dispatch']]}, {'Date': 'November 16, 2021', 'Header': 'Analysis: Residents say drought in Borana worsening; Regional gov’t says utilization of zone’s underground water could be lasting solution', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Dereje Gonfa @DerejeGonfa'], ['Addis Abeba, November 16/2021- Gumi Suricho, a resident of the Borana zone Dilo woreda told Addis Standard, “Since the breaking of news about drought in Borana everyone from individuals to institutions is rallying to support us,” admiring the response from the Oromo community. Gumi however argued that such support will not offer a lasting solution. He explained “The aid is not reaching everyone. It will not prevent more cattle from perishing and the looming hunger.” He went on to criticize the response from the regional\xa0 government saying “The government is hiding the problem to protect its image causing more people and cattle to suffer. ”'], ['The drought in the southern part of Oromia especially in Borana and Guji zones made thousands of livestock perish. Half a million residents dependent on livestock products are now longing for aid. The severity of the drought in the Borana zone is to the extent that all Thirteen woredas face shortage of cattle food and water. This caused 35 thousand cattle deaths and around 70 thousand are weak, unable to move without human assistance.\xa0'], [' “The government is hiding the problem to protect its image causing more people and cattle to suffer.” '], ['Dullacha Duba, another resident of Borana zone, complimented Gumi while describing the fundraising activities and the responses to the crisis as ‘momentary relief’. “We are receiving aid that will get us by for the time being,” said Dullacha, adding, “But the danger is bigger and we need more.”\xa0'], ['According to Dullacha, every household owns cattle in hundreds, feeding them with grass that comes in two trucks and water fetched from long distances cannot sustain them for very long. He asks, “It’s concerning, how long will we last like this? “ Dullacha explained, “Livestock is the only asset pastoralists have. Their cattle have perished. The cost of goods is higher than ever. We cannot buy 100kg of corn if we sell one goat. We fear that people may start dying of starvation.”'], ['Dullacha believes a campaign launched by the government to sell cattle to foreign companies that specialize in cattle management could be a solution. He said, “The government should intervene and facilitate a means for international and local fattening companies to buy cattle from the pastoralists. This is mutually beneficial for both the pastoralist and fattening companies.”'], [' “The shortage of water remains the biggest problem. “'], ['Dhaddacha Abuel, a resident from Wacille woreda of the Borana Zone told Addis Standard, “The delivery of aid is focused on making sure no one dies from hunger like before. But the problem is far from being resolved. The shortage of water remains the biggest problem.” Addis Standard’s previous report has revealed the death from starvation of an elderly in Wachile woreda, something the local administration refuted.\xa0'], ['Feature: Conscription, forced contributions to army & aid obstruction aggravate starvation in Borana, #Oromia ; local admins blame "enemy propaganda" https://t.co/cGeJFARObS  AS\'s Dereje Gonfa investigated the situation in Wachile woreda in the Borana Zone'], ['The response from regional government and NGOs\xa0'], ['Since the breaking of news about drought in Borana last September, the Oromo community in Ethiopia and beyond rallied in resource mobilisation. Jatani Bonaya, one of the fund raising organizers, told Addis Standard, “We started raising\xa0 money after we heard people were dying of starvation. Our objective was to do what we can to save lives.” Jatani said they were able to raise Five million ETB, “We purchased cattle food and food items and distributed it in Arero,Taltale and Dilo woredas.”'], ['On the other hand, Jarso Boru, the administrator of the Borana zone says, more than 160 thousand households were affected. Jarso divulged\xa0 to Addis Standard the statistics, “70% of those affected\xa0 have received assistance.” The zonal administrator added, “Our primary focus while providing aid is making sure nobody dies from starvation.”\xa0'], ['Speaking about efforts made to save residents’ cattle he said, “We are getting a lot of cattle food from other zones and city administrations across Oromia, it is not even half of what is needed.” Currently 39 water trucks are collecting and distributing water to address its shortage according to Jarso, “There are areas that are not reached yet, in those areas the number of cattle getting weaker and dying is increasing.”'], [' “Our primary focus while providing aid is making sure nobody dies from starvation.”\xa0 '], ['The Oromia regional government allocated 10 million ETB for cattle food and another 20 million to assist people in affected areas. The United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA)\xa0 announced that it is responding to the drought, “Humanitarian partners are on the ground in the Borana and West Guji zones to respond to the critical water & food needs.”'], ['However, testimonies from NGOs and government officials contradict with testimonies given to Addis Standard \xa0by\xa0residents who insist that the problem is worsening and the aid delivery is not as big or efficient as it is being portrayed in the media.\xa0'], ['The big concern'], ['The International Rescue Committee (IRC) expressed its concern that multiple seasons of drought plus ongoing conflict in parts of Kenya, Somalia, Ethiopia and Sudan will likely result in extreme hunger in the coming months.\xa0'], ['Residents of\xa0 Borana, who Addis Standard spoke to share the similar concern with the\xa0 ICRC. They say the water shortage especially is a long standing issue for them. Moreover, expressing worry about the sustainability of aid activities as the drought worsens.\xa0\xa0'], [' “Multiple seasons of drought plus ongoing conflict in parts of Kenya, Somalia, Ethiopia and Sudan will likely result in extreme hunger in the coming months. “'], ['Borana zone administrator disclosing more statistics said, “35,000 cattle are dead and around 70,000 are at a risk of dying and mostly unable to move without human assistance.” In addition Jarso said, “Pastoralists are fleeing to neighboring zones. This is causing disruption in the education of their children as they are dropping out and moving to other areas with their family and cattle.”\xa0'], ['Is there a lasting solution?\xa0'], ['The zonal administrator stated that Borana experiences cyclic drought due to lack of rain. The solution Jarso explained, “Currently, we are working on raising awareness as well as\xa0 trying to create a sustainable chain that connects pastoralists to companies.”'], ['\xa0He underlined, “There is a huge undertaking that aims to tackle desertification and decrease the number of livestock at the same time increasing productivity, based on experience from Australia and Konso woreda in SNNPR.” He continued, “There is a project currently under construction. Once the project is complete it will alleviate the water shortage problem.”\xa0 The project is led by the Oromia water and energy bureau.”\xa0'], [' “The underground water resource potential in Borana can be used for irrigation as well as drinking water to the cattle and humans.” '], ['On her part the head of the bureau Million Bekele told Addis Standard her office is working to address the water shortage in Borana zone. She said, “A project aimed at creating water networks by utilizing the underground water was launched 12 years ago. The project was revisited two years ago due to technical problems as the problems were not stated clearly.”\xa0\xa0'], ['Million explained, “The implementation of the project kicked off with a 5 billion ETB budget. It will require a lot more to complete it.” She said the budget allocated is limited and mobilization of resources from other stakeholders is necessary to complete the project. Million added “The underground water resource potential in Borana can be used for irrigation as well as drinking water to the cattle and humans.”'], ['A UN-backed report revealed that by 2030, up to 118 million extremely poor people on the continent will be exposed to drought, floods and extreme heat, which will hinder the progress made towards poverty alleviation and economic growth. The UN has recently allocated $40 million from emergency funds to support \xa0an early response to the drought in southern Ethiopia in addition to Ethiopia’s conflict-affected northern regions. With the funding relief agencies are expected to provide support to pastoral communities to preserve their livestock. AS']]}, {'Date': 'November 15, 2021', 'Header': 'News: UN allocates $40 m from emergency funds to humanitarian response in Ethiopia', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba, November 15/2021 – UN humanitarian chief Martin Griffiths today allocated US$25 million  from the Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) to support life-saving  humanitarian assistance and protection of civilians in Ethiopia.  '], ['A $15 million allocation from the country-based Ethiopia Humanitarian\n Fund (EHF) was also announced, increasing the total injection of new \nresources to Ethiopia to $40 million.  '], ['The combined allocation of funds will help scale up emergency \noperations in Ethiopia’s conflict-affected northern regions and support \nan early response to the drought in southern Ethiopia. “Millions of \npeople in northern Ethiopia are living on a knife-edge as the \nhumanitarian crisis is growing deeper and wider,” said \nUnder-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief \nCoordinator Martin Griffiths, who has just returned from Ethiopia. \n“Across the country, needs are rising.  '], ['“This injection of cash will help aid organizations meet some of the  most vulnerable people’s need for protection and relief.” '], ['In Tigray,  Amhara and Afar regions, the allocation will support relief agencies  providing protection and other life-saving assistance to people affected  by the conflict. Women, boys and girls continue to bear the brunt of  the conflict, yet their protection needs remain underfunded.  '], ['In the drought-affected Somali and Oromia regions, the additional \nfunding will support early response and anticipatory action. Relief \nagencies will provide drinking water, including to prevent waterborne \ndiseases and mitigate the risk of cholera outbreaks. Agencies will also \nsupport pastoral communities to preserve their livestock.  '], ['This new allocation brings CERF’s support to Ethiopia this year to \n$65 million, making Ethiopia the second-highest recipient of CERF funds \nin 2021. Support from the EHF this year now totals some $80 million.  '], ['However, humanitarian operations throughout the country face a  funding gap of $1.3 billion, including $350 million for the response in  Tigray. Dispatch ']]}, {'Date': 'November 10, 2021', 'Header': 'News: Aid blockage, destruction of health facilities hinder response to sexual violence in Tigray: HRW', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Addis Standard Staff\xa0'], ['Addis Abeba, November 10, 2021- The Human Rights Watch in a report released yesterday documented the health impacts of conflict-related sexual violence in Tigray citing humanitarian agencies and other service providers. The report thoroughly explained the effect of\xa0 the devastation of the healthcare system and the lack of availability of post-rape health care and related psychosocial support services among many other factors have hindered the access to care for sexual violence survivors, including girls and women from 6 to 80 years old.\xa0'], ['The HRW also listed insecurity, armed men’s presence in health settings, and Ethiopian government restrictions on communications, electricity, and humanitarian assistance among the reasons\xa0 that hampered the rehabilitation of the health sector and the ramping-up of a comprehensive response to gender-based violence. The report covers the period between between June and November 2021, in it containing the interviews with sexual violence survivors, local and international healthcare workers, service providers, humanitarian aid workers, members of community organizations, and government donor agencies in addition to previous Human Rights Watch interviews conducted between January and June 2021 with two Eritrean refugee sexual violence survivors and five health workers, service providers, and witnesses.'], [' “Priority should be placed on developing safe spaces and confidential services where survivors can seek support voluntarily and at the time of their choosing.”  '], ['Underscoring that the abscence of reliable estimates of the prevalence of sexual violence in the conflict, and comprehensive incident data the HRW said “Priority should be placed on developing safe spaces and confidential services where survivors can seek support voluntarily and at the time of their choosing.” The report also factors in insecurity, deeply rooted social stigma, and the lack of functioning healthcare facilities when arguing that the actual number of cases of sexual violence far exceeds the number reported. Moreover, it notes that certain groups of sexual violence survivors, including men, boys, older people, and people with disabilities, typically have fewer channels to seek confidential help from trained personnel equipped to provide support to them and for their specific needs.'], ['The HRW established that sexual violence survivors are able to seek services such as\xa0 testing, treatment, and termination of pregnancy, testing and treatment for sexually transmitted infections including HIV and Hepatitis B, and physical trauma, including broken bones, bruises, stab wounds, and traumatic fistula, in addition to psychological treatment.\xa0'], ['Citing the UN Population Fund (UNFPA), the HRW report revealed critical shortages in medical supplies used in the clinical management of rape threaten the provison of care to sexual survivors. It also showed that only 1 percent of health facilities in Tigray had the capacity to provide comprehensive gender-based violence services as of April 2021.\xa0'], [' The report also factors in insecurity, deeply rooted social stigma, and the lack of functioning healthcare facilities when arguing that the actual number of cases of sexual violence far exceeds the number reported.  '], ['Observing the acknowledgment of\xa0 reports of sexual violence by the Ethiopian government, the HRW criticized the response. “The investigations have been slow, and while senior officials, including Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed and Attorney General Gedion Timothewos, have personally acknowledged the occurrence of rape, senior officials have also downplayed media reporting around rape as sensational, referencing it as TPLF propaganda.” While paying regard to the Ethiopian government’s engagement with the aid community on medical and psychosocial support, through initially co-chairing the humanitarian coordination cluster focusing on protection issues, including gender-based violence, the HRW said, “However, these efforts pale in comparison to the effects of the severe restrictions to access and essential services that the Ethiopian government has imposed repeatedly on the Tigray region since the beginning of the conflict.”'], ['The report recalled the three-month suspension on Médecins Sans Frontières (Doctors Without Borders, MSF) Holland and the Norwegian Refugee Council after being accused of “misinformation” and failure to obtain appropriate work permits as well as the expulsion of UN staff members in September and explained that these actions\xa0 severely constrained the rehabilitation of the health sector.'], [' Humanitarian groups told HRW that they have found it difficult to meet the minimum standards of care to ensure an appropriate and quality humanitarian response as laid out in the Sphere Standards and other international guidelines. '], ['The HRW received the statements of healthcare workers and service providers working in Tigray who complained of lack of adequate medicines and medical supplies preventing them from providing service outside of urban centers for community-based outreach due to lack of cash, transportation, and fuel. Similarly, humanitarian groups told HRW that they have found it difficult to meet the minimum standards of care to ensure an appropriate and quality humanitarian response as laid out in the Sphere Standards and other international guidelines.'], ['While it acknowledged that warring parties may take military action to restrict electricity or communications to opposing forces as long as such actions do not cause disproportionate civilian harm, the HRW said, “The Ethiopian government should immediately provide full and unimpeded access for humanitarian aid to the Tigray region and restore essential services to meet the pressing healthcare and psychosocial support service needs of sexual violence survivors.”\xa0'], ['The HRW called on international donors to commit support and resources for the long-term rehabilitation of the healthcare system, including for clinical management of rape across the region. It also called on the United Nations Human Rights Council to urgently establish an independent, international investigation that examines the pattern and scale of violations, identifies those responsible for the worst crimes up to the present, and collects and preserves evidence to pave the way for future accountability and reparations.AS']]}]
[{'Date': 'October 12, 2021', 'Header': 'News Analysis: Weeks after rights commission expressed concerns over the security situation of civilians in East wollega, Communal Violence breaks out in Kiramu Woreda', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Dereje Gonfa\xa0'], ['Addis Abeba, October 12/2021- Addis Standard received reports from members of both the Amhara and Oromo community in Kiramu woreda of the East wollega zone. The testimonies received from members of both communities and a community leader reveal that violence broke out on Sunday October 10, claiming the lives of many and forcing people to flee their homes. Sources disclosed to Addis Standard that the violence started at noon and went well into the day. '], ['Dawit (name changed for security reasons),\xa0 an ethnic Oromo resident of  the woreda said that the onslaught took place between 12 AM and 5 PM. The offensive resulted in the death, injury and displacement of many according to him, among which are his own families.\xa0 He alleges that Amhara militias launched the an hours-long onslaught on civilians. '], ['The eye witness went on to accuse the Amhara militia of crossing over into the Oromia region and enticing violence by rallying up the Amhara community in the town. He insists that the attacks are ‘premeditated and organized’.\xa0'], [' “This attack was carried out by the Amhara militia,”  '], ['Dawit told Addis Standard that three of his family members, (his father, mother and his 12 years old brother) were killed in their house.  He said “It is an intentional attack against Oromo civilians,” adding, “We can’t even lay the dead to rest.”\xa0\xa0\xa0'], ['According to him, more than 25 ethinc Oromo were killed in the attack. He narrated, “They forced many out of town and killed them and they are also torturing those they didn’t kill.” He narrated the events “They came in large numbers, armed with heavy artillery. They killed randomly, looted what they could and burned what they couldn’t carry.”'], ['Another resident of the woreda and an ethnic Amhara, Jemal (name changed for security reasons) testified, “The attacks didn’t target the ethnic Oromo alone, it is rather a conflict between Oromo and Amhara residents”. He claims “The Oromo Liberation Army (OLA) operating in the area may be behind the attack.” Jemal recounted the event, from where he was hiding, “We hid the children and women and\xa0 those of us who were armed fled to the woods. I heard that about Seven ethnic Amharas died and others were injured.”'], [' “We hid the children and women and\xa0 those of us who were armed fled to the woods. I heard that about Seven ethnic Amharas died and others were injured.” '], ['Dawit, however, refutes Jemal’s claim and maintains that the OLA does not operate in this area. “This attack was carried out by the Amhara militia,” he said, asking, “If there were armed Oromos in the area, would they leave us here for dead?”'], ['An elderly and a community leader of an Amhara origin detailed how the attack unfolded. He recalled the withdrawal of Oromia Special Forces from the area on Wednesday, four days before the attack. “We asked the authorities to stop the withdrawal of the special forces from the area, but they did,” he added, “Shooting ensued shortly after, claiming the lives of many civilians, majority of which were Oromos.”\xa0'], ['Corroborating Dawit’s testimony, the community leader continued, “There was an exchange of fire and the majority of the casualties were from the Oromo community. I am not sure about the exact number, but I have seen many dead bodies. Eight ethnic Amhara were killed.” He regretted the withdrawal of government security forces, “We suspected this might happen and that is why we asked government security forces not to leave the area.”'], ['The recurring\xa0 violence in East wollega zone continues to claim lives of civilians. This attack comes weeks after the Ethiopian Human Rights Commission (EHRC) \xa0expressed concerns over the security situation of civilians in Kiramu Woreda, in East Welega Zone of Oromia regional state following the september 17 and 18 attack that killed 18 people in Boka Kebele. The commission noted the situation of residents of Kiramu woreda who fled to neighboring kebeles and towns seeking humanitarian aid. '], ['Addis Standard\xa0 reached out to the administrator of Kiramu woreda, Desta Tiki\xa0 for comments which he replied by saying, “I cannot comment unless I receive a direction from the government to give comments to a specific media organization.” Ararsa Mardasa, the commissioner of Oromia police on his part, refused to comment unless he is contacted in person. Moreover, multiple attempts to reach the administrator of the East wollega zone Alemayehu Tesfa, as well as the head of peace and security bureau of the zone were to no avail. AS']]}, {'Date': 'October 12, 2021', 'Header': 'News Analysis: Borana Zone of Oromia region reports over 4000 cattle deaths due to shortage of rain', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Getahun Tsegaye @GetahunTsegay12'], ['Addis Abeba, October 12/2021 – More than 4,000 cattle have died in the Borana Zone of Oromia region due to shortage of bi annual rain. Residents of the Borana Zone of Oromia region told VOA Amharic that cattle have died because of shortage of rain\xa0 in the fall and winter seasons.'], ['Residents complained that deaths have been occurring since the occurrence of the drought claiming thousands of cattle in various parts of the zone. The Borana zone livestock bureau, on the other hand, said over 4,000 head of cattle have died so far and more than 9,000 are at risk of dying.\xa0'], ['Fukaro Goru is a resident of Arero Woreda in Borana Zone who said, “Because it didn’t rain the past few months, many cattle have been dying in many areas of the zone.” He added, “Twice a year, in March and August, we used to get rain. Currently, we’re not getting enough rain which has caused the death of many cattle. In all woredas of the Borana zone, there is no rain, grass and the land is very dry. People are very terrified.”'], ['  So far we haven’t seen any support from the government. '], ['Fukaro said that he witnessed the death of more than a hundred cattle that belonged to his neighbor because of this drought. “So far we haven’t seen any support from the government,” he said.'], ['Kassim Guyo (PhD), head of livestock development bureau of Borana zone explained that the absence of rain for the past two seasons was the major cause of the damages. “More than 4,000 cattle have died so far,” he said. Kassim recalled that the zone notified\xa0 the Oromia regional state livestock and fisheries agency of the situation over a month ago.\xa0'], ['According to Kassim, the highest cattle death score is registered in Baltale Woreda where more than 1,486 cattle died. He added that 992 cattle died in Delo Woreda, 496 in Muro woreda, 219 in Arero, 216 in Guchi woreda, and 118 in Yabello woreda. He explained that a total of 4,164 cattle have died from 1,916 households.\xa0'], ['“Unless it rains or necessary aid is provided, more than 9,000 cattle are at risk of dying,” Kassim said while disclosing that his office is still waiting for the response. “Because the situation was not handled timely, the catastrophe is increasing from day to day,” he underscored.\xa0'], ['Feature: Conscription, forced contributions to army & aid obstruction aggravate starvation in Borana, #Oromia ; local admins blame "enemy propaganda" https://t.co/cGeJFARObS  AS\'s Dereje Gonfa investigated the situation in Wachile woreda in the Borana Zone'], [' Liban Kebede, the head of Borena zone disaster prevention and preparedness bureau, stated that his office is working to engage NGOs based in the zone to address the situation. “Our zone has more than Six million cattle, most of which we cannot provide with food” he added, “The Oromia regional government is working to save 10% of the total cattle which are highly productive. By engaging the NGOs, we distributed fodder to\xa0 Five woredas.'], ['Contrary to an earlier report by Addis Standard that revealed that Four deaths occured in the region related to shortage of food, Liban insisted that there was no harm to human lives resulting from this drought. He also added “Our bureau is carrying out a diligent follow-up on the matter.”\xa0\xa0'], ['On her part,\xa0 Amina Abdurahman (PhD),\xa0 the head of Oromia regional state livestock and fisheries agency confirmed that the regional government was aware of the drought in the Borana Zone. “The regional council has approved the budget allocated for fodder but the purchase is awaiting paperwork.”\xa0 She added, “ A committee composed of professionals is set up to research the type of fodder as well as suitable solutions.” promising, “The process will be completed soon and fodder will be made available in less than a week.”'], ['Residents of the Borena zone who spoke to Addis Standard said that food aid by humanitarian agencies was not consistently delivered for the past two years in the arid areas of the zone where the largely pastoralist community is suffering from food insecurity related to drought and shortage of fodder. An administrator of one of the woredas in the zone admitted to Addis Standard\xa0 the obstruction of aid by local officials, “We investigated the issue and took measures against the perpetrators. We addressed the issue by holding responsible those who took part in obstruction.”AS']]}, {'Date': 'October 1, 2021', 'Header': 'News: Death from Covid-19 continues to rise after third wave hit; Physicians urge public to get vaccinated', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Etenesh Abera @EteneshAb\xa0'], ['Addis Abeba, October 01/2021 – Since the breakout of Covid19 last year to this day 345,674 positive cases were registered. The Ministry of Health (MoH) and Public Health Institute (EPHI) announced last month that a third wave of the pandemic has hit the country and recorded cases with the Delta variant in the first week of September.'], ['On September 28 in press releases, the EPHI director general, Dr. Tsigereda Kifle said the delta variant of covid19 is spreading at a very high speed with 271 deaths in a week, followed by 49, 46 and 48 consecutive deaths in three days that followed the pressures.\xa0'], ['Dr. Weltaw Chane, the Executive Director of Millennium covid19 center which was opened to treat covid and function as an early isolation center told Addis Standard the center is functioning at its maximum level. He said, “During the second wave of the pandemic last April and March we upgraded our intensive care unit to 19 rooms from 10, currently we have 50 units but having this doesn’t mean the demand for more ICU units aren’t needed.”\xa0'], ['About the increasing number of covid recently, the director explained that delta variant might be a reason for the rising number of infections, coupled with the society’s ignoring to prevention guidelines, he said,\xa0 “Maybe the rise is for various\xa0 reasons but it’s a fact that the society is not following prevention guidelines properly or as seriously as the first wave of the pandemic.”\xa0'], ['Dr. Wuletaw urged the society to follow prevention guidelines, he said . “Despite all the societal, economical and political problems,\xa0 the society should overcome and focus on health,” adding, “One should stay healthy and alive.” The director also argued for the importance of vaccinations, he said, “If we get the vaccine it will reduce the risk of being affected by the virus, and in case of transmission and infection,\xa0 it will reduce the possibility to fall seriously ill and will upgrade your\xa0 immunity systems.’’\xa0\xa0'], ['According to data obtained from the MoH in the last 24 hours, from a total of 10,226 laboratory tests, 1,352 people tested positive while 48 new deaths were registered and 790 cases require intensive care. AS']]}, {'Date': 'September 24, 2021', 'Header': 'News: One dead, 58 in moderate to mild conditions while 22 in severe conditions as a result of a Cholera outbreak in Bale Zone', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Getahun Tsegaye @GetahunTsegay12'], ['Addis Abeba, September 24/2021 – Gemechu Shumi, Oromia Public Health Institute Emergency Management Directorate Director, confirmed to Addis Standard that high numbers of cholera cases have been recorded in the Dallo Manna woreda of Bale zone.'], ['He told Addis Standard that laboratory samples were taken and the possibility of an outbreak is confirmed. He explained that cases started to be recorded from September 18, 2021.\xa0'], ['“Since then, 80 patients have been identified of which 53 of them are moderately sick, 22 are severely dehydrated, and five are in mild condition. There has been one death recorded,” Gemechu explained.'], ['According to Gemechu, government officials at zonal and woreda levels, with other stakeholders including NGOs, have been engaged in various activities ranging from community awareness education to providing some supplies; such as, water treatment chemicals and filters to the local community to stop the prevalence of the outbreak, especially focusing on personal hygiene, and clean water supplies.'], ['“The residents do not have access to clean water and the outbreak most probably might be linked to this situation,” Gemechu said.'], ['He disclosed that a similar outbreak happened in Madda Walabu woreda in Bale zone two months ago. “Cholera outbreak has frequently been happening in lowland areas of the region, especially in the Bale area,” Gemechu said.'], ['Answering questions about how the outbreak is a threat for nearby woredas or areas, Gemechu said that there is fear that the outbreak might spread to other areas if not contained.\xa0\xa0\xa0'], ['He, however, argued that his team and other stakeholders are working hard to contain it. “The highest number of cases happened in one kebele whereas there are some mild cases in other three kebeles,” he said.'], ['The regional official remarks were corroborated by the Ethiopian Institute of Public Health (EPHI) who declared a cholera outbreak in Dallo Manna woreda in the Bale Zone.'], ['Mesfin Wosen, the Director of the Institute’s Disease Screening and Response Center, said, “There is a possibility of the occurrence of a Chikungunya virus outbreak in Dire Dawa, Somali and Afar regions.” He urged the public to be vigilant as there could be outbreaks of the virus depending on climate change.'], ['He also called on the public in Oromia, Amhara and SNNPR regions to be vigilant in clearing waterlogged and swampy areas to prevent a possible outbreak of malaria. He disclosed\xa0 discussions are underway with the Ministry of Health and regional health bureaus to identify areas of concern, intervene and address situations accordingly. AS']]}, {'Date': 'September 15, 2021', 'Header': 'News: German Africa Foundation gives its annual highest award to Ethiopia Rights Commissioner', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba, September 15/2021 – The German Africa Foundation (DAS) has announced today that the jury unanimously voted to award Dr. Daniel Bekele with DAS’ highest award in Germany in recognition for “his lifelong advocacy for human rights in Ethiopia”.'], ['The Foundation’s statement also recognized the key role Daniel Bekele played “in significantly transforming the Ethiopian Human Rights Commission and successfully advocating for the greater independence and expansion of its powers”. The Foundation further stated that the prize will be presented in a formal ceremony in November 2021.'], ['The\naward, given annually for over 25 years,\ncelebrates Africans who are leaders in their domain and made invaluable\ncontributions to advancement and progress. Previous recipients include Former\nMalian President Alpha Oumar Konaré, Ghanian lawyer and diplomat\nMohammed Ibn Chambas and Kenyan\nanti-corruption activist John Githongo. Daniel Bekele will be the first\nEthiopian to receive this award.'], ['Awardees are selected by an independent jury of experts and officials from the Germany’s Federal Foreign Office, Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development and various cross-party representatives from political organizations and personalities from the country. The jury selects from a list of nominees and proposals submitted by German embassies, foreign offices of public and private organizations with operations in Africa.\xa0 '], ['The Ethiopian Human Rights Commission’s staff warmly congratulate Daniel Bekele and join the German Africa Foundation in honoring his leadership and devotion to the cause of human rights. “We at EHRC all readily testify that Daniel is a living example that change happens by being the change you want to see” said on the occasion Rakeb Messele Aberra, Deputy Chief Commissioner; “His door has never been shut to anyone who needs him, he works twice as hard as his staff and he has an unmatched capacity for bringing out the best in people. We are indeed proud to add our voice to this recognition of our Chief Commissioner.”\xa0Dispatch ']]}]
[{'Date': 'July 8, 2021', 'Header': 'Obituary: In memory of Abebech Gobena, the jewel of indigenous humanitarianism', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Etenesh Abera @EteneshAb'], ['Addis Abeba, July 08/2021- The death of Abebech Gobena, also known as “Eddaye” by thousands of children she raised, sent shockwaves through Ethiopians who know her for dedicating her life to philanthropy. Thousands of children across Ethiopia were raised in Abebech Gobena Children’s Care and\xa0 Development Association orphanage. Abebech embarked on her humanitarian journey by adopting two children who lost their family to the famine that hit Ethiopia in the 1970s. Addis Standard spoke to Rahel Berhanu, one of the two children brought by Abebech from Wollo, beginning her humanitarian journey 37 years ago.\xa0'], ['\xa0‘’I don’t have words to describe Emaye (Abebech). She was my everything’’ Rahel said, fighting tears. Rahel, who is now a mother of two, went to college after she left the orphanage at age of 18. The support never stopped until she stood on her feet, Rahel narrated, “After getting my diploma, I started working with her. She was a mother above\xa0 mothers.’’\xa0\xa0'], ['‘’I lived there for ten years. Eddaye was a generous, good hearted mother. She lived for us. She lives in her children’s souls.’’ said Kalkidan Habetamu, a 20 year old who left the orphanage but is still supported by the organization. Kalkidan is studying Agro economics at Werabe University.'], ['The Abebech Gobena Yehetsanat Kebekebena limat Mahber (AGOHELMA) is one of the earliest orphanages and vulnerable children helping organizations in the country, founded by Abebech in 1980. The CEO, Eshetu Aredeo told Addis Standard\xa0 “I can say Abebech is a national hero. Four decades ago when there weren’t any non-government organizations in the country, without any educational background whatsoever, Abebch opened this center and started serving her people.”'], ['According to Eshetu, Abebech was an upper income citizen and owned three cars who chose to invest what she owned for the poor. Eshetu, who served AGOHELEMA for more than 30 years, says the organization will carry on with its broad humanitarian activities. “The organization is not only the earliest but also the most fruitful and successful” Eshetu said, referring to over 300,000 people who were helped by the organization. Annually, about 6000 children receive assistance from the organization.\xa0\xa0'], ['Describing the organization’s sustainability, Eshetu said, ”It is led by a visionary strategic plan which is revised every five years by discussing with stakeholders.We will continue to be supported by the government and the community including the donors.\xa0 Hopefully we will continue Abebch’s mission.’’\xa0'], ['“I have no children of my own but I have a family of hundreds of thousands and I have no regrets’’ Abebech said. The little girl who escaped a forced early marriage helped more than 1.5 million people through her Four decades service to the country. She worked on vulnerable children, built schools for those who couldn’t afford to pay, provided capacity building for needy mothers, worked on maternal health as well as environmental issues such as reforestation.\xa0\xa0'], ['Abebech got a lot of recognition and awards for her outstanding humanitarian works. Jimma University gave her an honorary Doctorate Degree in Humanity. The first and largest maternal and child health center in the country was named after her. \xa0\xa0'], ['Abebech was dealing with health issues related to her heart for the last 16 years, according to her family.\xa0 On July 4, 2021, she passed away after battling with Covid-19 at the age of 85. AS'], ['Team  Addis\xa0Standard\xa0mourns the passing of “Eddaye” Abebech Gobena, the jewel of indigenous humanitarianism. AS']]}, {'Date': 'June 23, 2021', 'Header': 'Analysis: Ordinary people reel from inflation; economist warns it will lower economic growth', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Getahun Tsegaye @GetahunTsegay12 & Mahlet Fasil @MahletFasil '], ['Addis Abeba, June 23/2021 – A recent report by the Central Statistics Agency (CSA) indicates that the\xa0 rate of inflation in Ethiopia increased by 19.7% in May 2021 compared to the same month last year. While the overall inflation rate surged by 19.9 percent the report indicated.'], ['According to the report, food inflation accounts for the biggest inflation rate standing at 22.6%, while non-food inflation rose by 16.5% as of\xa0 May 2021. The CSA reported that the 12 months moving average inflation rate suggests a longer-term high inflationary projection in the country.'], ['“Cereal prices continued to increase in the current month which has a great contribution to the rise in food inflation. In addition, the continued increase in the prices of edible oil, meat (showed fast price increase), butter, spices and coffee during the current month has contributed to an increase in the rate of inflation,” the report states.'], ['CSA reported that the inflation for non-food items rose by 14.8% compared to the same period last year. Price increase in Alcohol and Tobacco, Stimulants (Chat), Clothing and Footwear, Housing Repair and Maintenance (Cement and Corrugated Iron sheets), Energy (Firewood and Charcoal), Medical care, Transport (fuel) and Jewelry (Gold) were the causes for such spike in inflation.'], ['According to the data, at the country level, the month-on-month general CPI (Consumer Price Index) for the month of May 2021 has shown an increase of 2.2% as compared to the preceding month.\xa0'], [' “We don’t have another country. I don’t know when the government will take action.” '], ['To understand the toll of such market movement, Addis Standard spoke to some\xa0 residents of Addis Abeba. Like Mastewal Biru who said, “We don’t see an increase in our monthly salaries but the cost of living in the capital city is increasing day-to- day,” he continued explaining the toll it took on his way of life, “Now I am in the middle of living and not living. The government does not control it. The merchants do what they want.”'], ['When asked on what items the price has increased, Mastewal replied, “Everything is more pricey but it is hard to tell how bad the price of teff, oil and medicine has gone.” He exclaimed, “Do you believe or not there is an increase of 2 birr per egg!”'], ['Another resident of Addis Abeba who deals with continued inflation is Selamawit Girma, a mother of three with a monthly salary of 4000 birr. Selamawit described to Addis standard\xa0 how the increasing cost of living became a ‘nightmare’. “I am very scared of the current cost.\xa0 I am afraid of being on the streets with my children. Prices are increasing in house rent, transport, foods and non-food items make things out of control for which the government seems to be doing very little about.” She went on expressing her disappointment by saying, “We don’t have another country. I don’t know when the government will take action.”'], ['But inflation seems to be affecting more than ordinary residents. Mesfin Haile is a retail shop owner in Addis Abeba who told Addis Standard, “There has been an increase of price in each item that we bring from the whole sale which obliged us to increase our retail price on the customers,” he continued expressing despair at the situation, “I feel bad but I can’t do anything as the price of every item increases daily.”\xa0'], ['An economist opinion\xa0'], ['Abis Getachew is an independent economist and researcher who has done research about the inflation in Ethiopia. While answering questions about the driving factors that bring change in inflation right now, he explained that the context of inflation in Ethiopia is linked with many factors. According to him, most of the consumer goods are imported which demand a lot of forex but he argued even goods that are produced in Ethiopia,m are affected by non-existent and ineffective chains of distribution.'], ['“Corporates who have bargaining power relatively benefit from it while employees, retirees, savers, banks, and government are the losers.”'], ['Abis went on saying, “ When we compare the national budget allocation of last year with this year, in terms of dollars, last year’s budget was way higher than this year. It indicates that our purchasing power is decreasing from time to time.”\xa0'], ['When asked about the winners and losers in the context of continued\xa0 inflation. Abis said, “Corporates who have bargaining power relatively benefit from it while employees, retirees, savers, banks, and government are the losers.” He expanded by focusing on points. He explained, “If prices rise, the value of money falls and the real value of savings declines which shows that savers lose from inflation.”'], ['Abis believes that the working class is most affected by inflation. He said, “Inflation highly affects workers who are stuck on fixed-wages contracts. Suppose that workers have a wage freeze and then inflation is at 3%. It means at the end of the year their wages purchase 3% less than at the start of the year.”\xa0'], ['According to Abis analysis, “Borrowers, businesses with high debt, and landowners/owners of physical assets benefit from inflation.” He explained by adding, “While savers’ value declines in hyperinflation periods, physical assets tend to maintain their value. In such a period, physical assets such as gold and silver are highly demanded and don’t lose their value as paper money/birr.”'], ['On the effect of global market movement on Ethiopia’s inflation, he said, “Inflation has been globalized and the situation of the global economy has a heavy impact on the local economy but the most significant impact, in the context of current Ethiopia’s inflation, comes from the huge imbalance between demand and supply.” He explained further that there are shortages of supplies in many aspects, especially in people’s daily consumption of goods though the demand is not that much exaggerated.\xa0\xa0'], ['Abis believes that the economic elites and the government seem to have done little about it.\xa0 He, therefore, suggested the government and concerned bodies come up with methods to manage inflation before it is too late and should pay due attention on how to minimize or regulate the rate of inflation in the country.\xa0'], ['If inflation is high and variable, Abis believes, it will create an atmosphere of uncertainty for both consumers, banks and companies which will result in a reluctance to invest and this can lead to lower economic growth. AS']]}, {'Date': 'June 16, 2021', 'Header': 'Analysis: Post-violence recovery in Oromo Special, North Shewa zones reel as thousands remain displaced', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Getahun Tsegaye\xa0'], ['Addis Abeba, June 16, 2021 – Little is known about the aftermath of recent conflicts in North Shewa and Oromo Special Zone in Amhara Regional State. The two zones have been a scene of conflict since their establishments but the conflict has never such damage to property became a scene of instability and narratives range from mischaracterization to vilification. Addis Standard reported on atrocities that were unfolding in these areas.\xa0'], ['The Ethiopian Institution of Ombudsman (EIO) in press release on April 8,2021 acknowledged failure on part of the Amhara region and said that, “303 people were killed, 369 injured, 1,539 houses were torched and based on the information we received from the administrations of the two zones over 50,000 people have been displaced.”\xa0 Later, Addis Standard\xa0 reported quoting UNOCHA that\xa0 358,000 people displaced from North Shewa and Oromo Special Zones of Amhara due to conflict and are in dire need of food, shelter, non-food items, water and healthcare services.\xa0'], ['Why conflict?'], ['Conflicts in the Oromo Special Zone and its neighboring North Shewa Zone have produced conflicting narratives from both sides of the conflict. Both sides blame the other for the start and the escalation of the conflict. These conflicting narratives can be seen in recent testimonies Addis Standard was able to collect.\xa0'], ['Like a resident of Ataye, who asked for anonymity for fear of reprisal, said,”Oromo Special Zone’s political operatives participated in the conflict.” According to him, the actions were led mainly by ‘Shane’ (a name used by the government to refer to the Oromo Liberation Army). He recapped:” There are some rumors that TPLF remnants took part in the operations which may or may not be true.“'], ['A witness from Senbete town, which is under Oromo Special Zone, challenged the testimony that claimed that ‘Shane’ had participated in the conflict. He blamed the Amhara regional government for associating the conflict with OLA. For him as many others, it was the Amhara regional Special Force, literally called Liyu Hail, who aggravated the matter by actively participating in the conflicts.'], ['This contradictory narration of events were seen also at the start of the conflict, the Oromia Regional State chapter of the ruling Prosperity Party (PP), the Oromo Prosperity Party (OPP)\xa0accused\xa0Amhara Special Forces of fomenting violence in the Oromo Special Zone of the region. Its content showed how the Amhara Regional State chapter of the ruling Prosperity Party (PP), Amhara Prosperity Party (APP)\xa0slammed\xa0the statement\xa0of its counterpart chapter in Oromia Regional State and described it as “irresponsible and irrational,” The APP also made claims\xa0about the existence of the group called ‘OLF-Shene’ that, according to the party’s statement, attempted to disturb Amhara Regional State peace and security.'], ['The process of resettlement and humanitarian aids'], ['It has been only a few months since hundreds of thousands of people got displaced from their homes. Many houses, healthcare facilities, hotels, bars, business centers and government offices turned to ashes. In a scene that describes the depth of the conflict and what can be expected if reasons conflict are not addressed properly.\xa0\xa0'], ['Addis Standard attempted, though constrained in getting ample information, to answer the question of the whereabouts of IDPs from North Shewa and Oromo Special Zone. But both Oromia Special Zone and North Shewa Zone administrators declined to provide information and only commented,” The area is under command post and we have no legitimate ground to give details at this moment,”\xa0'], ['Taddesse is a resident of Shewa Robit who told Addis Standard, “Since the establishment of the command post, Shewa Robit and its surroundings are more secure than before.” It was on April 18, 2021 that the Federal Ministry of Defense announced\xa0the establishment of a command post that encompasses three zones; North Shewa, South Wollo and Oromo Special Zones. The command post has imposed two restrictions that include the prohibition of carrying arms in certain areas, closure of roads and the burning of places of worship, houses and government institutions.'], ['A top official in Ataye’s town administration, expressed his agony stating, “Ataye became a ghost town. It is demolished, appalling, deserted with few or no remaining inhabitants.”\xa0 He told Addis Standard that their frequent endeavors to resettle IDPs to their home became unsuccessful. He said only a handful of them were willing to come back home but with fear for their lives while the majority of them opted to stay away.'], ['Asalif\xa0 Deribe, Ataye City Prosperity Party Chairman, explained to Addis Standard that he and his colleagues were working to facilitate aid coming from the government and very few NGOs. He said, “Though the aid is very much appreciated,it is not in line with what the displaced people need.” According to him, Federal and Amhara Regional governments are working jointly at a plan level to rebuild Ataye and its vicinities and for this effect rehab offices are under construction.'], ['Addis Standard’s attempts to get hold of Jille Timuga Woreda administrator were unsuccessful. Nonetheless, a resident in Senbete town, who wanted to remain anonymous, told Addis Standard, ‘’There are thousands of people displaced from neighboring Kebeles like Wossen Qorqur, Chafa Dire, Arbawayu, and Dimtu Chekorso and have no place to go but depend on others.”\xa0'], ['Addis Standard also talked to an IDP from Ataye town, whose house got burned and asked if he was assisted by any entity. He said, “Local government officials registered the damage I encountered and promised to help me but the promise is yet to be fulfilled. I, my wife and two kids still live in my friend’s house located in Debre Birhan city.” Another IDP added, “We are neglected, abandoned and are in a state of dereliction.”'], ['An Oromo Special Zone’s rehab committee coordinator, told Addis Standard, “Neither the federal government nor Amhara regional state supported our affected people.\xa0 Responsible individuals formed a rehab committee and coordinated aid coming from Diasporas and the local communities.” Abdu adds, “There are many IDPs in Senbete town, living in pitched tents in elementary school and are still being helped by the local community, administrators and NGOs.”\xa0'], ['A witness from Ataye town said, “Tents have been set up and displaced people are expected\xa0 to live in but only some have come.”\xa0'], ['Mark (Name changed upon request), is a civil servant and said, “I was displaced from Ataye and lived in Debre Birhan temporarily with friends but now I am back in my home town following government’s call to start work. I am forced to live with friends since my house was burned down.” According to him, IDPs are coming to the town since its security is getting good. He also said, “Because a lot of houses were burned and have not been rebuilt yet, Ataye 01 kebele is almost abandoned.” He went on saying, “Few NGOs, government, and individuals are helping IDPs by providing edible and non-edible items, clothes and the like which are not enough.”\xa0 He further testified, “Though life is getting good, especially in Kebele 02 where more IDPs reside in tents or with other people, healthcare centers are not fully functional yet.” According to him, schools in Ataye are not open yet but Commercial Bank of Ethiopia located in Kebele 01 is serving though other banks are still closed.\xa0'], ['Shewaribit’s resident Aynalem, whose mother got displaced from Karakori due to the conflict, told Addis Standard, “My mom has recently gone back to her home following the improvement of security in Karakori.”'], ['How is Ataye?\xa0'], ['\xa0“We are living in fear. Trust vs. mistrust is best portrayed in our communities. Traumas have engulfed our people,” said one of Ataye’s Cabinet members who did not want to disclose his name. He, however, stated that the area is under command post and deployed defense force, federal police and local law enforcers are working to ensure the sustainability of peace. He expressed his hope saying, “Things will get back to normal.”'], ['A civil servant testified that the government was still paying salaries but its call to begin work was undoubtedly impractical. He said, “I am very pleased that the government called us to start work and serve but most offices were burned down.” Responding to Addis Standard, a rehab committee coordinator from Oromo Special Zone said, “Despite the area being under command post, we are living in torrential fear.”'], ['Seid, who currently resides in Kombolcha city, nearly 400km north of Addis Ababa, told Addis Standard, “I would rather be homeless and be safe with my family than return to Ataye. I saw how the violence was and I don’t have a heart to witness that again. The scar shall remain in my mind for years to come. I don’t believe peace and order will prevail in that area.”\xa0'], ['What does the future hold?\xa0'], ['Biruke is a resident of Shewa Robit who told Addis Standard, “My job is driving a minibus to transport people from Shewa Robit to Kemise to the north and to Debre Birhan to the South. Despite some fears, we are on work since the area is under command post.” When asked about the normalcy in the areas where conflicts hit hard. Biruke explained, “I have seen closed shops that are now open. A few people are returning to open public markets in Jeweha and Betie but it is not as good as it used to be.” Biruke hopes that the ongoing conflict resolution meetings led by the command post will bring tangible and prolific results that will benefit both communities.\xa0'], ['A statement from Jille Timuga Woreda Communication Office preached the idea that people of North Shewa and Oromo Special Zone shall live in harmony. It disclosed that elders, religious leaders, influential individuals, and administrators from both Ataye and Senbete towns discussed and passed directions to apprehend suspected criminals to justice. The statement further explained that the final phase of the ongoing reconciliation meetings would be held in Ataye city on June 18, 2021.'], ['The ENDF in a statement said, “A peace conference was held among three weredas-Efrata Gidim, Antsokiya and Fursi, of Amhara Regional State where violence occurred.” The statement went on saying, “Woreda administrators, elders and religious leaders vowed to bring perpetrators to justice and to maintain peace.” AS']]}, {'Date': 'June 7, 2021', 'Header': 'Analysis: Threats to fish production loom over Lake Hawassa as fishermen hope for a timely solution', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Etenesh Abera\xa0 @EteneshAb\xa0'], ['Addis Abeba, June 7, 2021- Lake Hawassa is one of the jewels of the capital of the newly formed Sidama Regional State and former South Nation Nationalities Peoples Region, Hawassa city. The lake is famous for being a recreational venue with the beautiful resorts and hotels surrounding it. Addis Standard visited Hawassa and discussed the issue with Sidama region’s natural resource bureau and other stakeholders.\xa0\xa0'], ['Lake Hawassa is one of the many freshwater shallow lakes found in the central Ethiopian Rift Valley with the richest diversity of flora and fauna compared to other Ethiopian Rift valley lakes. Among the fishes which are abundantly found in the lake are Nile tilapia catfish, a native African species and bar bus.'], ['According to fish suppliers along the lake shore, the fish production is decreasing from time to time. Dawit Aberham, the chairman for Lake Hawassa fishermen’s union, attributes the decrease in fish production to nets which are imported without proper research and illegal fishermen organized as small enterprises. According to Dawit, these fishermen catch fish around prohibited areas such as the grasslands where the fishes mainly reproduce. The chairman added that the irrigation nearby the lake and water pumping trucks are also among challenges for the fish production, resulting in small fishes and eggs being thrown out to the dryland.'], ['Similarly, the polluted water from the Hawassa industrial park and the Hawassa Referral Hospital impacts the fish production in the lake to some extent. “’We have already notified the stakeholders about the issue. Untreated water should not seep into the lake because it will devastate the biodiversity of the lake”, Dawit told Addis Standard. According to Dawit, the factories claim that the water they release into the lake is treated where there is no means of verifying it. Additionally, the lake is polluted by sewage “The flooding and sewage from the city contaminates the lake. But currently the city administration is planning to treat the flooding and the sewage before it joins the lake.’’'], ['Yonas Teshete, the secretary of Lake Hawassa fishermen union, corroborated the chairman’s statement. He said the overfishing on the lake continues to significantly decrease the diversity of the fish found in the lake. “More than ten small enterprises are working on the lake from the Oromia region side of the lake and from SNNPR. All of them are fishing on the lake shore depleting the lake’s resources.”\xa0 For Yonas who was born and raised nearby the lake, the decrease in fish production is visible. “Currently fishermen are prone to losing their means of income. The union is also in danger.’’ He added that the illegal nets which are imported from Egypt are mainly causing a decrease in fish production. According to him, the nets catch very small fish that are not mature enough for market. Addis Standard was able to observe while the fishermen threw the small fishes back to the lake from the so-called ‘Egyptian’ nets. The fish is immediately picked up by the bird species with the scientific name Marabou Stork, commonly known as Aba Koda.\xa0'], ['In an interview with Addis Standard Tekle Zonba, the director of Sidama region’s\xa0 animal resource and fish development agency acknowledged the issues raised by the fishermen in the lake Hawassa. “The pandemic slowed down overproduction temporarily for the last couple of months increasing the fish resource.’’ Tekle noted that the challenges still persist. According to the director, different stakeholders are doing research on how to increase the fish production on the lake including Hawassa University. For the question asked by Addis Standard about the nets which were said to be imported from Egypt, the director responded by explaining that a task force is being set up to control it. “They call it a Monofilament net. It doesn’t spare the very small fish which are not ready for food consumption.” he said, further explaining that the task force comprises regional police, attorney general, personnels from the region’s animal resource and fish development bureau as well as fishermen unions to mitigate the problems. He promised that the import of the net will be prohibited soon.\xa0'], ['With regard to pollution of the lake, the director said that the liquid byproducts from the industrial park are treated and do not cause harm. ‘’One of the serious challenges for the lake and its fish production is the flooding and sewage from the city which brings solid and liquid waste into the lake.” Tekele said the task force is working on both technical and administrative issues to solve the overall problems of the lake. He also noted the illegal fishermen who he said are harming the biodiversity of the lake. “A committee is set up to oversee the illegal fishing activities and put a stop to it.”\xa0'], ['Team Addis Standard would like to give recognition to Alazar Kirubel and his friends who have been collecting plastic bottles from the lake shore every week for the last two months. “I don’t have any motivation other than wanting to see Lake Hawassa be a healthy place for its inhabitants and the residents of the city.” AS']]}, {'Date': 'April 29, 2021', 'Header': 'News: African Dev’t Fund provides $31.2 m to Ethiopia to boost nutrition, end child stunting', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba, April 29/2021 – The Board of Directors of the African Development Fund has approved a grant of $31.2 million  to Ethiopia to “increase access to multi-sectoral nutritional services for children under-five years, by boosting access to services for improved health, a more diverse and  nutritious food,\xa0and improving knowledge, attitude and practices  on feeding, care and hygiene,” African Development Bank (ADB) said in a statement sent to Addis Standard. '], ['“The Multi-sectoral Approach for Stunting  Reduction Project (MASReP) will target forty districts or woredas in the  country’s Amhara and Tigray regions.” '], ['The  project, with a total cost of $48 million, has three programmatic  components:\xa0climate-proofed infrastructure development for effective  service delivery; livelihood support, production and  promotion of nutritious foods; and strengthening institutional systems  and capacity building, according to the Bank.  '], ['“With  its strong emphasis on using a comprehensive package of systemic and  mutually reinforcing multi-sectoral interventions to simultaneously  address the multidimensional causes  of stunting, the project will significantly contribute to building the  grey matter infrastructure of the children in the target areas and lead  to improved productivity in the future,” said Nnenna Nwabufo, Director  General for ADB’s East Africa Region.\xa0 “The project is also a demonstration of the Bank’s  efforts to accelerate the implementation of the Bank’s Jobs for Youth in Africa Strategy as well as operationalize the African Nutrition Accountability Score Card (ANASC) launched in 2019.” '], ['The  ANASC, a data driven advocacy tool, was developed by the African  Leaders for Nutrition, an initiative of\xa0 the African Development Bank,  the Global Panel on Agriculture and Food  Systems for Nutrition, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the  African Union.\xa0 '], ['In the project target area, nearly 50% of children under age 5 are afflicted by stunting '], ['According to data available child malnutrition remains a significant development challenge in Ethiopia.  In the project target area, nearly 50% of children under age 5 are afflicted by stunting.\xa0 A range of factors contribute  to the prevalence of undernourishment, including low dietary diversity  and poor access to clean drinking water. '], ['The project\xa0aligns to the Ethiopia’s Sequota Declaration (SD), signed in 2015 as a commitment to end stunting in children under two by 2030  under the leadership of  the national ministries of health; agriculture, water, irrigation and  energy; education; women, children and youth; labor and social affairs;  transport; and finance. '], ['“The  project\xa0 also contributes to Ethiopia’s effort to achieve the United  Nations’ 2030 Sustainable Development Goal 2 to end hunger, achieve food  security and improved  nutrition, which is strongly aligned with the African Development Bank’s Ten-Year Strategy 2013–2022 and two of its ‘High Five’  operational priorities seeking to ‘Feed Africa’ and ‘Improve the Quality  of Life for the People of Africa’.” AS ']]}]
[{'Date': 'April 5, 2021', 'Header': 'News: More than two million people in Somali region affected by drought, require assistance: UN', 'news_paragraphs': [[' Addis Abeba, April 05/2021 – Some 2.1 million people across 74 Woredas in  Somali Region require humanitarian assistance as a result of drought, according  to the Regional Disaster Risk Management Bureau (DRMB), the UNOCHA said.  '], ['Dawa, Liban, Afdher and Shabelle are the most affected Zones followed by Sitiand Jarar Zones. Traditional water sources have dried and there are limited functional water schemes/boreholes in the affected areas. '], ['#ONLF informs the PM @AbiyAhmedAli, President Mustafe & the #UN agencies in #Ethiopia, that unless urgent intervention is taken within this week, many people in the #Somalistate will die of thirst. The livestock is already dying. #VOA #BBC #ICRC pic.twitter.com/Yj5Dayh87P'], ['On April 02, the oppostion Ogaden National Liberation Front (ONLF) said “unless urgent intervention is taken within this week, many people in the Somali State will die of thirst. The livestock is already dying.”'], ['Sitti Zone livestock resource bureau head Elias Adem on his part said the drought has severly affected various woreds and is causing the death of livestock including goats. '], ['Dr. Abdulfetah Sheik Bihi, Somali region DRMB head, also confirmed that more than two million people are being affected by the drought which has spread over all the elevn zones of the regional state. Sitti Zone livestock resource bureau head Elias Adem on his part said the drought has severly affected various woreds and is causing the death of livestock including goats.'], ['According to the UNOCHA, “at least $65.5 million is required to cover all identified needs, of which $16.4 million is required for WaSH interventions. The overall response currently is limited to water trucking and rehabilitation of non-functional water  schemes.” '], ['Between January and March, humanitarian partners (UNICEF, Save the Children  International,  local  NGO OWDA,  Mercy  Corps  and  ACF) have  reached  257,892 people with water truckingsupport, representing 13 per  cent of the total needs, while the Regional Government has allocated ETB 20million(~$479,000) for fuel and maintenance of water trucks. WaSH actors are rehabilitating 28 non-functional water schemes in different zones. Additional  resources  are  required  to  urgently  provide  water  trucking  in  all  the  74 prioritized woredas and to rehabilitate all 95 non-functional boreholes/water schemes. AS   ']]}, {'Date': 'March 29, 2021', 'Header': 'News: U.S.,Ethiopia launch new $2.2 b Productive Safety Net Program', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba, March 29, 2021  – Today, the United States joined the Government of Ethiopia and  development partners to launch the next five-year phase of the  Productive Safety Net Program (PSNP). The PSNP is the Government of  Ethiopia’s multi-billion-dollar food security, public works,  and social safety net program for millions in need across Ethiopia.\xa0'], ['Over the next five years, the PSNP will reach up to nine million people  each  year as it provides food assistance and services that will lift   vulnerable families out of poverty'], ['The PSNP was first established with U.S. support in 2005. As the largest  donor, USAID’s contribution accounts for over $550 million.\xa0'], ['Today’s  launch represents a total additional $2.2 billion investment by the  government and Ethiopia’s international partners in PSNP. Over  the next five years, the PSNP will reach up to nine million people each  year as it provides food assistance and services that will lift  vulnerable families out of poverty.\xa0'], [' Minister  of Finance Ahmed Shide and Minister of Agriculture Oumer  Hussein launched the new, fifth phase of PSNP with heads of agencies  from the United States Agency for International Development (USAID),  World Bank, UK Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office, World  Food Program, UNICEF, Irish Aid, and the Netherlands at a ceremony in  Addis Ababa.\xa0'], [' USAID Mission Director Sean Jones said, “The American people’s commitment to this Ethiopian-led program is long-standing. We are pleased  to continue our work together to build upon the success of the PSNP in  improving food security and nutrition, and resilience in poor and  vulnerable communities. We applaud the Ethiopian government’s  commitment, leadership, and increased ownership under this  initiative. The American people greatly appreciate the opportunity to  be a partner of the Ethiopian people in the coming years.”\xa0'], ['The United States has supported the PSNP initiative since its inception and  remains Ethiopia’s largest bilateral assistance partner, investing over  $4 billion in the last five  years alone.\xa0Dispatch ']]}, {'Date': 'March 26, 2021', 'Header': 'The Interview: “We have to protect our unique identities, preserve our unique cultures and our artifacts”: Owner of first private museum in Ethiopia', 'news_paragraphs': [['Abdullahi Ali Sherif is the founder of Sherif Private Museum, the first private museum in Ethiopia and a holder of an honorary Doctorate from Haramaya University for his contribution on the development and conservation of cultural heritages. Abudullahi Sharif, a father of five who considers the museum his sixth child. He was awarded an honorary doctorate from Haramaya University on March 13, 2021 and at age 70, he wants to do more to preserve indigenous heritage. Addis Standard’s Etenesh Abera visited his museum on March 21, 2021 and sat down with him for an interview to discuss the process of establishing the first private museum, culture and heritage and more.'], ['Addis Standard: Thanks for sitting with us, can we first give a brief introduction for those who follow your work and can you tell us more about your journey to establish the first private museum\xa0in\xa0the\xa0country?'], ['Abdullahi Ali: I was born and raised here in Harar. During my highschool years, I had unanswered questions that led me on search for my identity and culture. Being a Harari, I started asking our elders about our culture and heritage, the answer I got was “We don’t have anything,” sank me into a crisis of identity. To my luck 25 years later, there was this Harari traditional Music band named Hayewan Mugad and they wanted to celebrate their 25 years anniversary and I started working on the preparation of this event collecting audios and other mediums. During preparation elders started to bring me mediums and artifacts that recorded our traditional and religious heritages. I was upset because years back when I was on the journey to find out about our history, I asked them why they refused back years to give me these materials and the\xa0 replyvis was more upsetting, they said, “We feared for our lives because during that era all people had to sing of one culture, one country and one religion.”\xa0\xa0'], ['We released some 125 songs in the Harari language along with a biography of the band. After that I continued to collect the Harari artifacts from our elders and different individuals in the community.\xa0'], ['AS: How would you describe the process of collecting the artifacts ?'], ['Abdullahi: Hard but as I told you earlier once I started collecting artifacts, the Harari community\xa0will bring to me most of them for free and to your knowledge my collection is not complete as I am still in the process of collecting them. I do have collections of pre Menelik era coins, manuscripts, religious books, different cultural clothes medals and so on.\xa0'], ['Before I moved to this house which belonged to Teferi Mekonnen or as he is  widely known Haile Selassie I, I used my own small family room as a museum for more than 17 years. Using my own house as a base for my museum caused a lot of stress to my family and had its mental and physical toll on us. I moved to this house. July 26,2007 right before the start of the new Ethiopian millenia. I have been renovating it for 13 years and it still needs a lot of renovation. In this humble setting, I have five exhibition rooms that display 13,000 artifacts. This number is an improvement to the 6,000 artifacts I had when I started.\xa0'], [' “in our museums we do not only work on preserving only Harari artifacts  and present Harari culture but we are also working to preserve and help  other culturally specific museums…” '], ['I also have four operational workshops. I operate a workshop as a center for digitizing manuscripts,\xa0 I operate a second as a center for digitizing audio, I operate a third workshop as bookbinding center,\xa0 in which I am proud to say that we have already bonded more than a thousand books and operate my last workshop as a center for renovating the museum, and preserving artifacts. If I may add that here in our museums we do not only work on preserving only Harari artifacts and present Harari culture but we are also working to preserve and help other culturally specific museums, for example out of the 1,500 manuscripts we digitized so far only 1,000 belong to our museum and represent Harari culture. We always prepare two copies of the digitized manuscripts and we send one copy of each manuscript to the Hill Museum & Manuscript Library,\xa0 a non-profit organization located at and sponsored by Saint John’s Abbey and University in Collegeville, Minnesota.'], ['Out of the artifacts I possess, only 35% have been purchased while the remaining were collected from the Harari community mostly by donation. We are only displaying 20 % of the artifacts collected due shortage of display rooms. We store the remaining 80 % in warehouses and we make them accessible upon request by researchers.\xa0'], ['I have in my possession now more than 1300 manuscripts written in Arabic, Harari and Afan Oromo and more than 2000 religious and historical books. I also have a collection of cultural clothes of different ethinc groups, a collection of medals, ancient coins, postal stamps, photographs, in short I have in my possession artifacts from 17 categories.\xa0'], ['AS: Did you exhibit your collections in places other than this museum?'], ['Abdullahi: Yes I toured almost all the Ethiopian majors cities and towns and if I am not mistaken the total is more than 60 cities and towns. Iran, Kuwait, Qatar, United Arab Emirates and Morocco are some countries where I have exhibited my collection. I have received a lot of certificates and awards for these exhibitions. '], ['” To receive this recognition for your hard work, the feeling was more  than what I can describe. I have to credit my wife Sa’ada Tawfiq for her  17 years of patience as all these artifacts were filling our living  room.” '], ['AS: Describe your feelings when Haramaya University made the decision to award you with an honorary doctorate?\xa0\xa0'], ['Abdullahi: \xa0To receive this recognition for your hard work, the feeling was more than what I can describe. I have to credit my wife Sa’ada Tawfiq for her 17 years of patience as all these artifacts were filling our living room. I have to add that this honorary doctorate for me isn’t about mere recognition, it also puts the heavy responsibility of finishing the job on me. Many of the artifacts are yet to be registered and catalogued, this is a huge load. This recognition will be a motivating force to finish organizing the museum and bring it to national standard, it is also an eye opener for both regional and federal governments as well as the wider community to give due attention to the museum.\xa0'], ['AS: What is your main source of support?'], ['Abdullahi: I would have to say mainly the Ethiopian people who helped me in many ways financially and otherwise but I would have to add that The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) office, the United States embassy, Russian Embassy and United Kingdom embassy and Ethiopian-Saudi businessman Mohammed Al-Amoudi lend me hand in maintaining this museum.'], ['AS: What are the biggest challenges you face and can you tell us about your concerns for the future and what do you want the public to know?'], ['Abdullahi: To be honest I am worried that the museum will shut down after I pass away. My children know the ins and outs of this profession and the methods of preserving artifacts but my worry is that financial constraints would prevent them from continuing with this dream of mine. I have been getting some support for the museum from the government, and that support has to continue. Another challenge would be lack of promotion, the eastern part of the country is merely promoted for international tourists and that can be solved if responsible governmental bodies promoted it. Because Harar is a tourist destination and the museum could prove to be a great source of employment and income for the community if supported.\xa0'], ['I have to say this to my fellow Ethiopians;\xa0 we have to protect our  unique identities, preserve our unique cultures and our artifacts for  the coming generations to see. '], ['I have to say this to my fellow Ethiopians;\xa0 we have to protect our unique identities, preserve our unique cultures and our artifacts for the coming generations to see. If you own an artifact in no matter how small you think it is, donate it yourself or via someone you trust to museums,\xa0 do not keep them out of selfishness or sell them to tourists, because if you do you leave the next generation fighting to find things that connect them to their identities, cultures and history.\xa0AS']]}, {'Date': 'March 18, 2021', 'Header': 'Analysis: Disability rights activists hopeful as Electoral and Human rights commission vow to ensure community participation', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Etenesh Abera @EteneshAb'], ['Addis Abeba March 18, 2021 – The Sixth National Election that was scheduled to take place in August 2020 was postponed indefinitely due to the outbreak of Covid-19 in the country and is now set to be held in June, 2021. According to Soliyana Shimeles , the National Electoral Board communication advisor,\xa0 “What makes this election different from previous elections, efforts are being made to help marginalized groups participate in the upcoming election. Internally Displaced People and people with disabilities will be given a special focus to boost their participation in the sixth national election.”'], ['\xa0The Ethiopian Human Rights Commission (EHRC) has previously criticized the performance of regional and federal governments as well as the NEBE during the\xa0 referendum that was held on November 20, 2019 in key points, among them their performance in regard to making polling stations accessible to people with disabilities, the statement that was issued two days after the referendum on the commission’s official Facebook page highlighted that most polling stations that the commission’s observers visited were not accessible to people with disabilities while acknowledging that some had some sort of access.\xa0'], ['However, lawyer and disabilities rights activist Yetnebersh Niguse is hopeful, she told Addis Standard,\xa0 “This is different from the previous election that I have participated in,”. She observed there is attention being given to people with disabilities referring to the efforts being made to encourage parties to present people with disabilities as their candidates by limiting the number of the number of signatures required to collect by community members.\xa0 “The Ethiopian Human Rights Commission and civil societies collaborating with the National Electoral Board of Ethiopia on this matter this election is an initiative that needs to be encouraged,” added Yetnebersh.'], ['According to the Federal Ministry of Health, there are over 4.9 million visually impaired people in Ethiopia. The Ethiopian National Association of the Blind is one of the oldest civil organizations in the country with more than 17,000 regular members. According to Wosen Alemu, the president of the association, “Proclamations of this election were printed in braille. I hope more documents will be made accessible to the visually impaired community” Wosen shares Yetnebersh opinion about the efforts being made to accommodate people with disabilities, he said, ”The reduction in the number of signatures collected for blind candidates is a good start and should be encouraged.”\xa0'], ['The communication advisor to the NEBE, Soliyana Shimeles on her part explained that the board is working to make polling stations accessible to people with disabilities. “We have established a department responsible for ensuring inclusiveness at each polling station,” Soliyana citing election proclamation 1162 she continued, “The board is trying to incentivize the involvement of people with disabilities by promising more campaigning airtime for parties who enlist people with disabilities for candidacy. However, there is negligence on the part of political parties registered to contest in this election.” According to Soliyana, “The parties want us to change this requirement.” She stressed on the role that media, civil society organizations and other stakeholders can play in ensuring the inclusiveness in the upcoming elections.'], ['When Soliyana was asked if there is a Braille voting card for the blind in the election, she pointed out budget restrictions and tightness of schedule as reasons behind their possible nonexistence but highlighted that efforts are being made to have visually impaired individuals participate in the upcoming election. She explained, “Allowing visually impaired voters to go to the ballot with the help of the person of their choosing, could be a method applied by the board.”\xa0'], ['In relation to the involvement of people with disabilities in the upcoming elections,\xa0 Daniel Bekele (PhD), the commissioner of the EHRC told Addis Standard, “The commission has identified that three sections of society: Women, IDPs and people with disabilities need special attention during the election.”\xa0 The commissioner continued, “Especially with regard to people with disabilities, information and polling stations should be made accessible to people with disabilities.” He explained that In addition to observing polling stations on election days, the EHRC will consult with the NEBE and provide recommendations about the issue. “The commission is working closely with the Ethiopian association of People with disabilities and the Ministry of Social and Labor Affairs to ensure the participation of people with disabilities in the upcoming election.” AS']]}, {'Date': 'March 10, 2021', 'Header': 'News: ADB approves $2.33 m grant to support the modernization of electronic payments infrastructure', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba, March 10/2021 –  The Board of Directors of the African Development Bank (ADB) has approved a  grant of $2.33\xa0million to EthSwitch Share Company, an initiative led by National Bank of Ethiopia, for the modernization of its payments infrastructure.'], ['The grant\xa0 is resourced from the special fund of the\nAfrica Digital Financial Inclusion Facility (ADFI), a pan African initiative that aims to facilitate digital\n financial inclusion for an estimated 332M unbanked population across the African continent, 60% of whom are women.\xa0\n'], ['The African Development Bank believes that provision of interoperable payment systems that are aligned to\nLevel One Principles\n of reach, safety and affordability,\n provide the needed grounding to accelerate financial inclusion on the \ncontinent and enable opportunities for people in low-income groups, \nespecially women.'], ['The\n project that entails procurement and implementation of the required \npayment system, will facilitate design and use of different digital \nfinancial services (DFS)\n including , digital distribution of payments such as social benefits, \npensions and other government payments, e-commerce, transport systems, \nand utility bills.\n'], ['“Digital\n payments infrastructure is a pre-requisite to effective financial \ninclusion. By linking the rails and the rules, the EthSwitch project is \nbraced to change\n the digital payments landscape in Ethiopia and ADFI is happy to invest \ntowards that impact.” said Sheila Okiro the ADFI Fund Coordinator.'], ['EthSwitch  was legally established by the National Bank of Ethiopia in 2011 to  provide simple, secure, effective and affordable digital payments  infrastructure to the  Ethiopian market. The National Bank has a 46% stake in the company with  the remaining shares going to financial service providers in the  country. The country’s regulatory framework favors the modernization of  the switch and through a shareholding structure  open to Banks and MFIs, the company is held accountable by key  stakeholders. Non-banks will be allowed to participate on a case-by-case  basis as approved by the National Bank of Ethiopia. '], ['The  EthSwitch project will be implemented over a three year period with  ADFI and EthSwitch working closely with strategic industry experts and  players.\xa0Dispatch ']]}]
[{'Date': 'February 5, 2021', 'Header': 'Viewpoint: Orphaned Pastoralists in Ethiopia demand socio-economic inclusion', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], ['By Mohamed-Taqwim Badel Ali @taqwiim99'], ['Addis Abeba, February 05/2021 – Pastoralism is often defined as a culture and way of life where more than fifty percent of the livelihoods are dependent on livestock. Ethiopian pastoralists are an estimated 15% of the country’s population and occupy 62% of Ethiopia’s landmass. Of these 55% of them live in the Somali region.\xa0'], ['Pastoralists contribute 45% of the country’s agricultural gross domestic product, 21% of the country’s total GDP, and 10 percent of the country’s total exports (mainly exporting live animals).\xa0According to the FAO 2019 estimates, the national herd comprises 57\xa0million cattle, 5 million camel, 30\xa0million sheep and 23\xa0million goats, and 57\xa0million chicken, as well as equines and a small number of pigs. '], ['Nevertheless, pastoralists have never been a meaningful part of the country’s economic and political essentials and foundations. Rather, they stand on the periphery.'], ['For the Somali people in particular, livestock is everything. Food, means of transport, money and pride. They consume the products as a stable food, use as transport, buy/sell for exchange of other necessary items, pay as compensation (Dia) and dowry during the marriage, and enjoy a pride among the community.'], ['… pastoralists have never been a meaningful part of the country’s  economic and political essentials and foundations. Rather, they stand on  the periphery. '], ['\xa0The importance of the livestock is best described by Somali poet (Abdi Gahayr) saying “Aakhiro nimaan geel lahayn, lama amaanaynin” loosely translated as: “Even in the Hereafter, men without camels will not be praised”.'], ['Livestock is so important to the lives of\ntens of millions of Ethiopians, yet it has not been given to a greater\nattention. When you look at the government’s spending, development projects and\nthe country level development policies, you can easily observe how the sector\nand it is people were marginalized.\xa0 '], ['Successive Ethiopian governments have not\nseen pastoralism as a viable way of life that deserves to be developed. Rather,\nthey saw it as a backward and ungovernable system that had to be changed.'], ['Different Plans have been made to resettle\npastoralists, reduce livestock numbers and convert them to farmers. And none of\nthe efforts have been successful.'], ['The FDRE 1995\nconstitution gives pastoral communities the right to free land grazing, fair\nuse of natural resources, have market access and receive fair price, and not\ndisplaced from their own lands. Some Pastoral development projects were also\nimplemented across the country; however, these efforts were not materialized\ninto a meaningful outcome and positively affected the pastoralists.\xa0 '], ['The country’s pastoralists live in a state of hope and despair. When you look at how pastoralists are striving for the health of their animals, raising different types of livestock, world-class marketing, the increased international and domestic demands of livestock products as well as the urbanization of pastoralism mainly selling their products in major cities like Addis Abeba, Diredawa, Jigjiga, Godey, Dhagahbur, and Kebridahar among other cities, it will give you a hope that pastoralism will last forever and have a brighter future.'], ['Also, if pastoralism is commercialized and modernized livestock husbandry practices are in place, food, hard currency, clothes and even shoes will be available to every pastoralist.\xa0 And that is the essential need of a human being. '], ['On the other hand, if you look the negative\neffects of climate change, the lack of clear government policy towards pastoral\ndevelopment and it is implementing institutions, and how they are not\nessentials or even influential of the national governance and economics system,\nyou wonder how long pastoralism can last as way of life and means of\nlivelihoods?'], ['In a nutshell, if pastoralism is given the attention it deserve, I hope\nthe country’s pastoralists will be prosperous, have a great impact on the\nnational economy, and positively contribute the global food security.'], ['Pastoralists are an integral part of Ethiopia’s socio-economic system,\nand developing them is a nation’s development while ignoring the pastoralists\nis ignoring the whole nation. '], ['And finally, anything about pastoralists, without pastoralists, is\nagainst pastoralists! Let the pastoralists prevail! AS'], ['______________________________________________//______________________________'], ['Editor’s\nnote:\nMohamed-Taqwim Badel Ali is Lecturer at Jigjiga University, Institute of\nPastoral and Agro-pastoral Development Studies. He can be reached at:\xa0taqwiim99@gmail.com']]}, {'Date': 'January 29, 2021', 'Header': 'News Analysis: Prosopis juliflora reduces water resources in Ethiopia, costing rural livelihoods', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], ['Addis Abeba, January 29/2021 – New research has revealed how an invasion of the alien evergreen tree, Prosopis juliflora  seriously diminishes water resources in the Afar Region of Ethiopia,  consuming enough of this already scarce resource to irrigate cotton and  sugarcane generating some\xa0US$\xa0320 million and US$\xa0470 million net benefits per\xa0year.'], ['A  team of Ethiopian, South African and Swiss scientists, including lead  author Dr Hailu Shiferaw, Dr Tena Alamirew, and Dr Gete Zeleke from the  Water and Land Resource Center of Addis Abeba University, Ethiopia, and  Dr Sebinasi Dzikiti from Stellenbosch University, South Africa, and Dr Urs Schaffner,  Head Ecosystems Management, CABI, have been assessing water use of  prosopis and its impacts on catchment water budget and rural livelihoods  in the dry Afar Region of Ethiopia since 2015 as part of a long-term  collaboration in the framework of the CABI-led Woody Weeds project.'], ['Their new study, published in Scientific Reports,  provides evidence that this alien tree, which has invaded both the floodplains of the Awash River and the surrounding dryland habitats, uses excessive amounts of water by consuming approximately 3.1-3.3  billion m3/yr of water throughout the year in the Afar Region.'], ['In  the context of climate change and an increasing frequency of drought   events in dry regions of Sub-Saharan Africa, the report concludes that   this invasive tree is likely to have serious consequences for   sustainable livelihoods in the region…  '], ['“We found that single trees of the evergreen prosopis consume between 1-36 liters of water per day, depending on stem diameter and site conditions. Prosopis trees  not only use water throughout the year, but even consume more water during the dry season, when almost all native plants have shed their  leaves,  Dr Shiferaw said, “The high sap flow of prosopis  in the drylands throughout the year may be due to exceptionally deep  roots that penetrate up to 50m below the surface, where they tap into  groundwater that cannot be used by native trees with shorter roots.”'], ['In\n the context of climate change and an increasing frequency of drought \nevents in dry regions of Sub-Saharan Africa, the report concludes that \nthis invasive tree is likely to have serious consequences for \nsustainable livelihoods in the region unless its spread is contained and\n its density reduced.'], ['Dr Urs Schaffner,  senior author and Head Ecosystems Management at CABI in Switzerland,  said, “Since its introduction in the Afar Region in the 1980s, prosopis has invaded 1.2 million ha of land. Thus, unless the spread of prosopis is  contained and the density reduced in areas where it has become  established, this invasive tree is likely to have serious consequences  for sustainable livelihoods in the region. The estimated net benefits  from water savings alone would strongly justify the implementation of a  coordinated control program.”'], ['The  report clearly supports findings from works undertaken in South Africa  on water use by invasive tree species. Prof Brian van Wilgen from  Stellenbosch University, South Africa, previous scientific advisor to  the ‘Working for Water’ program in South Africa and partner of the  Woody Weeds project, said, “In South Africa, invasive alien trees are  estimated to reduce surface water runoff by between 1.5 and 2.5 billion m3  per year, and this could increase substantially as the invasions  continue to spread. In addition, invasive trees in drier parts of the  country have substantially reduced water in groundwater aquifers on  which local farmers and towns are totally reliant.”'], ['He  further explained that, “These losses have serious consequences for a  country where water scarcity limits economic activity and growth. The  government in South Africa has responded by creating a multi-million  dollar, national-scale program, dubbed ‘Working for Water’, to control  invasive alien trees, and has also passed legislation preventing  further propagation of invasive alien trees and requiring landowners to  control them.” AS']]}, {'Date': 'January 27, 2021', 'Header': 'In depth: Shashemene: A city determined to stay resilient fights for its recovery', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], ['By Siyanne Mekonnen\xa0@siyaanne\xa0\xa0& '], ['Bileh Jelan\xa0@bilehjelan'], ['Addis Abeba, January 27/2021\xa0–\xa0In the aftermath of the June 29th assassination of Artist Hachalu Hundesa, the city of Shashemene like few others in Arsi and West Arsi zones of the Oromia Regional State witnessed a series of events that saw the death of at least 166 dead and scores of injured. As a result, 4700 individuals were arrested in relations to the violence that wreaked havoc across the region leading to loss of life and damage of property. '], ['Forty government officials, including then mayor of the city Temam Hussein, and 20 members of the regional security apparatus were arrested by the Oromia Regional State Police, in an apparent acknowledgement of failure to protect civilians on the part of these officials. '], ['Shashemene’s reputation as being an economic hub, a cultural and religious melting pot was affected by reports and conversations that came subsequent to Addis Standard’s own report on June 29th events. The city is the capital of the West Arsi Zone of the Oromia Regional State as well as a commercial center where traders from nine zones in three regional states (Oromia, Sidama and SNNPR) came to trade in mostly agricultural produce. '], ['Sunday markets were legendary where silent deals on major agricultural products needed in urban centers like Addis Abeba, Hawasa and Bale-Robe were made. Goods coming from Kenyan ports destined to Addis Abeba found their way in the mega storage units, placed all over the city as it is a major stop on the intercontinental corridor (Addis Abeba – Nairobi – Mombasa). '], ['Over the decades since it has begun to grow as a city, Shashemene has become a melting pot where people with different religious and cultural background coexist. '], [' “There were unfounded allegations that only Christians were attacked while  the others say all non-Oromos were the target of the violence.”'], ['The city also hosts the Rastafari Community that is estimated to be numbered in the hundreds. Shashemene suffered from social media conversations and media reports that had opposing camps engaged in debates that have painted the city as a place of extreme religious views from the different faiths. '], ['There were unfounded allegations that only Christians were attacked while the others say all non-Oromos were the target of the violence. While the government reports of arrests are floating, the question of who was behind these events remains unanswered. '], ['The uncertainty has seen many residents leave the city\ncreating a feeling of insecurity among local tourists whose contribution to the\nlocal economy is of great significance, prompting many to choose Hawassa, a\nhalf an hour drive from Shashemene as a stay destination, leaving the\nhospitality industry devastated.'], ['The once crowded and busy market of the city is recovering slowly. “The social fabric remains strong and unaltered,” insisted Ammaruddin, a shop owner who participated in community efforts to provide basic commodities like food, blankets and water to sheltered communities (in churches and mosques). Addis Standard team took a trip to the city to report from the ground on how the city was finding its way back to normalcy and the efforts that have been made both by resident communities and regional government to help bring about the desired results of returning to normal. '], ['Ammaruddin, a resident of the city, a business owner and a\nfather of one insists that, “With all the difficulties me and others are\nfacing, there’s relative peace and people to people relations is slowly coming\nback to normal.” '], ['“The attempts to destroy this city’s image in the hearts of its residents, did not succeed.”'], ['Roba Nigussie, a native of the city and a driver, told Addis Standard,\n“Although some communities are hesitant to be open with each other again, the\nrelations of the youth in these communities are back to normal.” he continues,\n“The attempts to destroy this city’s image in the hearts of its residents, did\nnot succeed.” '], ['Wubshet Wolde, a 30 years old father, resident of Shashemene\nand a shop owner in Aposto (The rather busy city center that was badly damaged\non June 29) told Addis Standard, “The people-to-people relations\nare fine, communities work with each other but to be honest many who felt the\ncity is not a safe place to live anymore, left the city to other places.”'], ['Special Asha, a member of the Rastafari community and a\nresident of the city for 6 years said, “This is the land of God, Allah, Jah\nwhatever you want to call it, people will always find ways to heal and\nreconnect in such a land.” he continues, “Different communities were nothing\nbut helpful during the tragic events, I don’t think this will change.” '], ['Reports of people leaving Shashemene to settle elsewhere in the country flooded the news, something Abdul Jabbar Ali says, “Is true” but he adds, “The news circle was so harsh and unfair to the Arsi Oromo community, rumors that were going around about a second wave of attacks made so many leave for fear of their personal safety.” he argued, “The way they framed it, Oromos were killing Non-Oromos but the matter of the fact is, we don’t know who staged the attacks and who was behind it plus everyone even Oromos themselves were affected and that’s according to the government.” He concludes, “Most of the communities who stayed and didn’t leave the city were supported by all sectors of society in the city which should tell you that our social fabric is intact although I won’t deny that people are still a little wary of each other.” he concludes, “I credit media with that.”'], ['“Different communities were nothing but helpful during the tragic events, I don’t think this will change.”'], ['We spoke to Jawar Aman, an 80 years old resident of the city who gave his testimony to Addis Standard after the unrest who said, “My son although in good health is with permanent disability. I won’t leave this place with all the scars that I have, it is my chosen home.”\xa0 '], ['The movement in and around the city is back to normal as well as travel in and out of the city, schools are open and students have resumed classes. The city market, which once was one of the busiest markets in Oromia and the country as a whole, famous for trading in agricultural and other goods is slowly getting back normal. '], ['Shashemene, an economic hub where people from across nine zones\nin 3 regional states (Oromia. Sidama and SNNPR) came to trade, has suffered a\ngreat deal from both the events and the coverage that followed the events in\nterms of human lives lost and economic loss. '], ['According to residents Addis Standard spoke to, influential businessmen and women closed down their business, most famously, the Haile resort Shashemene branch owned by renowned athlete Haile Gebreselasie is yet to be reopened.'], ['Goods are not flowing into the city as it used to before and\nsmall business owners who suffered a loss during the events are finding it\ndifficult to recover in the absence of assistance from the regional government\nand the hassle they get from the insurance companies. '], ['One such person is Ammaruddin, whose shop was destroyed\nalongside his merchandise in the now damaged downtown business center “Aposto”.\nAmmaruddin told Addis Standard, “I had a thriving business and\nit was destroyed. We heard promises that the government will help communities\nget back to their normal to this moment not one government office contacted me\nand insurance companies kept stalling me.” When asked how he is surviving now,\nhe said, “All the merchandise you see is bought by the help of family and\nfriends in the merchants’ community. The shop as you see is burned to the\nground, I sell in front of it as it is.”'], ['Wubshet who as well owns a shop in Aposto tells the same story, “The city didn’t gain its stamina back. Influential members of the business community left the city and some decided to never do business in it again. I reopened my business after peace returned to the city and I can tell you, business is recovering but slowly.”'], ['The tragic events left a trail of destruction in the neighborhood. Shamsu Busair, a longtime resident of the city told Addis standard, “We used to have shops, cars and the three-wheeler taxis, usually known as “bajaj” now we have nothing. Even back then when I couldn’t get work, I would take my bajaj out and earn what was enough for me and my children. There you see my property is destroyed and I don’t have a bajaj to get my daily needs.” '], ['According to Shamsu, the worst about it is facing the\ncommunity, something Sabir Langoba shares with him, “We used to have everything\nand now we are beggars. We wait for help from the community and the\ngovernment.” Sabir continues, “Insurance companies are stalling us and we can’t\nget loans from banks. How are we supposed to put our lives back together? “ '], ['Abdul Jabbar Ali, a native of the city and businessman told Addis Standard,\n“All the promises they made about rebuilding Shashemene are not realized. Most\nof the money they gathered in the name of victims and their families, hasn’t\nreached.” He adds, “All the people that you see back on their feet came as a\nresult of help from the community and families living elsewhere in the\ncountry.” '], ['It is important to note that the government has dispatched an investigation team five days after the events and a total of 4700 individuals in different parts of Oromia in relations to the violence that wreaked havoc across the region. Among the arrested are prominent Oromo politicians Jawar Mohammed and Bekele Gerba, Eskinder Nega and Lidetu Ayalew (recently released on bail.) '], [' “The money that was promised for the rehabilitation of the city should  find its way. The rhetoric that is damaging the city’s reputation has to  stop and people who lost properties should be compensated properly.”  '], ['These measures seem to offer less counsel to Abdul Jabbar who argued, “Bringing the real people responsible to justice would provide closure and could ensure investors that the security situation is under control.” Roba thinks that, “The money that was promised for the rehabilitation of the city should find its way. The rhetoric that is damaging the city’s reputation has to stop and people who lost properties should be compensated properly.” Roba’s sentiments are shared by many residents of the city, these sentiments empower the long held belief that “Only with peace comes prosperity.” '], ['The Ethiopian Human Rights Commission published a report that presented details about the\nviolence in Shashemene and elsewhere in Oromia regional state, in a presser held to present the findings to the\npublic, the EHRC among other points raised with different stakeholders called\non the Federal and Regional attorney general offices to identify and hold accountable the perpetrators of the human\nrights violations that occurred during the widespread security crisis and to\nregularly update the public on the process, In accordance with international\nhuman rights law. It also called on the Oromia regional council to set up a\nnational rehabilitation and compensation fund that would allow for a harmonized\nand sufficient compensation for victims of human rights violations as per\ninternational human rights standards. AS']]}, {'Date': 'January 12, 2021', 'Header': 'News: Five regions see Cholera outbreaks; more than 50 die in December alone', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], [' Addis Abeba, January 12/2021 – Some 1,873 cases and 53 deaths were identified in eight Woredas in Dawro Zone, and two Woredas of Bench Sheko Zone by the last week of December 2020, UNOCHA said. '], ['Response interventions are ongoing in Gambella, SNNPR, Sidama, Oromia, and Afar Regions which have registered active cases of cholera. Oral Cholera Vaccination (OCV) was completed in three Woredas. '], ['WHO is providing technical and operations, including community engagement, surveillance, OCV, and training in both Gambella and SNNP Regions. While UNICEF is providing WaSH and Risk Communication and Community Engagement activities. NGOs such as IRC, PIN, Transform PHC are operating in SNNP Region and MSF Holland is operating in Gambella Region.'], ['Preventative and control measures, including risk communication, awareness creation and education, WaSH, surveillance, case management, and targeted (reactive) are ongoing in SNNPR, Gambella, Oromia, and Sidama Regions. High case fatality rate, weak partner coordination at zonal and woreda levels, limited operational capacities of partners, security and limited access to the affected populations remain challenges to the response in SNNP Region. Presence of refugees in the Woreda (11,000), shortage of water treatment chemicals, and issue of cross border surveillance along South Sudan are major challenges in Gambella Region. Dispatch']]}, {'Date': 'December 30, 2020', 'Header': 'News: ATA teams up with partners to deliver Livestock, COVID-19 information to farmers', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], [''], ['Addis Abeba, December 30/2020 – The Ethiopian Agricultural Transformation Agency (ATA), in  collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA), Ethio Telecom and  Ethiopian Public Health Institute, has incorporated and deployed  livestock advisory and COVID 19 health advisory contents on its 8028  Farmers Hotline. The new contents are currently available in five local  languages (Amharic, Afaan Oromo, Tigrigna, Wolaytigna and  Sidamu Afoo). '], ['According to United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO, \n2018), the livestock sector where about 1.3 billion people are dependent\n on for their livelihood contributes to 40 percent of Global \nagricultural Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Ethiopia’s livestock is one \nof the largest in Africa, contributing nearly 20 percent of the \ncountry’s GDP, and 15 percent of export earnings (FAO, 2019). The \nlivestock sub-sector supports the livelihoods of about 80 percent of \nrural people in Ethiopia.'], ['“Farmers across Ethiopia should have easy access to crucial and \nrelevant information for them to make informed decisions regardless of \ntheir locations. Moreover, they should also have updates regarding the \ncurrent pandemic that is challenging the world so that they can protect \nthemselves, their families as well as their community. Hence, we have \ndecided to team up with our partners to ensure delivery of important and\n up-to-date livestock and COVID-19 information to our smallholder \nfarmers using 8028 farmers toll-free hotline services in a way they can \neasily access it.” ATA CEO Khalid Bomba said.'], ['Dr. Fikru Regassa, State Minster for Livestock Development at MoA \nsaid “Livestock is one of the primary assets of Ethiopian farmers with \nenormous contribution to livelihood/income, household nutrition, \nemployment opportunity, and other social obligations. Besides, it has \nbeen making significant contributions to country’s foreign earnings.\xa0 \nThus, it is highly important to provide smallholder livestock producers \nwith the necessary information and updates on improved production and \nmanagement practices, and COVID19 prevention mechanisms. That’s why we \nhave partnered with our key stakeholders to ensure that farmer get the \nproper advisory service while at the same time protecting themselves \nfrom the current pandemic”.'], ['Ethio Telecom has been always our partner in supporting crop \nproducing smallholder farmers using the 8028 Farmers’ hotline service. \nSo far, the 8028 Farmers’ hotline has received approximately 46.5 \nmillion calls from smallholder farmers that has been provided by Ethio \nTelecom as a toll-free service.'], ['The 8028 Farmers’ Hotline livestock is an additional advisory service\n launched to provide necessary information in four major livestock \ncategories: Dairy, fattening (Cattle and small ruminant), Apiculture, \nand poultry (small scale commercial poultry and Improved household \nPoultry). The advisory service also makes the consumption of \ntechnologies with improved management practices in feed resource \nproduction and utilization of proven technologies easier with little \ndemonstration and engagement of dedicated extension workers which has \nbecome difficult following the COVID-19 pandemic.'], ['Cognizant of the challenges of the current pandemic, the ATA, in \ncollaboration with Mercy Corps Ethiopia and Ethiopia Public Health \nInstitute (EPHI), has launched the Interactive Voice Response (IVR) \nservice on COVID 19 for 8028 Farmers Hotline system users. Users can now\n get COVID 19 health advisories focusing on Safe Farming, Family and \nCommunity Interaction, Handling COVID death and Myths.'], ['John Mundy, the Mercy Corps AgriFin Program’s Desert Locust & \nCovid-19 Emergency Manager & Digital Climate Smart Agriculture Lead \nexplained “The role of digital channels has been critical in addressing \nCOVID-19 information gaps with smallholder farmers who are often located\n in difficult to reach rural areas. With this in mind, we have teamed up\n with ATA’s 8028 Farmers Hotline Project team to deliver best ways of \nmaintaining one’s own health as well as keeping the community safe from \nCOVID-19”. The incorporation of this service will serve crucial in rural\n areas where medical services and facilities are highly scarce. It will \nalso be more efficient in delivering health lessons to remotely located \nfarmers especially COVID 19 without any need for appearing physically.'], ['The Ethiopian Agricultural Transformation Agency (ATA) has launched  8028 agronomic advisory IVR/ SMS service\xa0 in partnership the Ministry of  Agriculture, Ethiopian Institute of Agricultural Research and Ethio  Telecom after going through a five month pilot test\xa0 in 21 Woredas of  Oromia, Amhara, SNNPR and Tigray in 2014. With six years of  uninterrupted service, Users of the 8028 Farmers Hotline and help desk  system have been accessing information about 21 crop types across  cereals, pulses and oilseeds and household irrigation crops across a  wide range of agricultural activities with content length of up to five  minutes. Dispatch ']]}]
[{'Date': 'December 11, 2020', 'Header': 'News: Climate-fueled La Niña in East Africa will drive millions into hunger: OXFAM', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], [''], [''], [''], ['Addis Abeba, December 11/2020 –Over 50 million\xa0people  are in need of immediate food assistance in the Horn East and Central Africa, with numbers expected to rise significantly as the region braces for harsh, climate\xa0fueled La Niña conditions, said Oxfam yesterday. The warning comes as world leaders prepare to meet for a virtual Climate Ambition Summit\xa0on Saturday 12 December.\xa0\xa0\xa0'], ['Starting\xa0in \nmid-December,\xa0South\xa0Sudan,\xa0Somalia, Ethiopia, Kenya, Tanzania, \nRwanda,\xa0and Uganda\xa0are likely to suffer from\xa0below average rainfall\xa0as\xa0a\n result of\xa0a strong\xa0La Niña, which could result in millions more people \ngoing hungry in 2021.\xa0'], ['Lydia\xa0Zigomo,\n Oxfam in Horn,\xa0East,\xa0and Central Africa Regional Director, said: “The \nforecasted dry season will be the last straw for many, devastating their\n remaining crops and cutting their lifeline of food and income.”\xa0'], ['The climate crisis is causing erratic \nweather patterns across the world including longer and more severe \ndroughts across the Horn, East and Central Africa region. It is likely \nto increase the frequency and strength of La Nina events. Any rainfall \nthat does come is likely to arrive in heavier bursts devastating crops \nby flooding or washing away recently planted seeds and seedlings. '], ['Farmers, who make up almost 80 per cent\n of the region’s population, have already been hit hard by severe floods\n and the biggest desert locust swarms in 70 years – both supercharged by\n the climate crisis – as well as the economic fallout of COVID-19 \npandemic.\xa0\xa0'], ['Since January,\xa0locusts have\xa0caused\xa0$8.5 billion\xa0worth of damage across the region including to\xa0nearly\xa0100,000 hectares of cropland in Somalia,\xa0an estimated\xa0200,000 hectares\xa0in Ethiopia\xa0and\xa0about\xa070,000 hectares\xa0in Kenya,\xa0 starving livestock and causing food shortages.\xa0\xa0'], ['The infestation in Ethiopia is feared to be the worst\xa0on record\xa0and threatens the \xa0“meher”  harvest, which contributes 80% of the\xa0country’s\xa0total  harvest.\xa0According to the Food and Agricultural Organization,  swarms\xa0are\xa0expected to move south in Somalia and Ethiopia, reaching  northern Kenya\xa0from mid-December.\xa0A single swarm can contain up to 150  million locusts per square\xa0kilometer\xa0of farmland.\xa0'], ['Noor\xa0Maalim\xa0Abdi, a\xa0Kenyan\xa0farmer, \nsaid: “We used to have three meals a day, but\xa0with the locusts and \nCOVID-19,\xa0not anymore.\xa0 For now, we sell our animals to sustain our \nfamilies\xa0but with the curfews and lockdown it’s not easy. Our movement \nis restricted.”'], ['Abdilaahi\xa0Wayrah,\n a\xa0Somali\xa0farmer\xa0who works with\xa0Oxfam, said: “The locusts\xa0destroyed our \ncrops at the time we were expecting to harvest. I’ve never seen \ninfestations\xa0like this before, and the saddest thing was that we \ncouldn’t do anything about it. '], ['“Then COVID-19 came, and because \nof the lockdown,\xa0seed\xa0and pesticides\xa0prices went up. We\xa0could not\xa0afford\n to buy these necessary things. We don’t have enough food at the moment,\n but we’re trying to rebuild again.”\xa0'], ['Ethiopia, Kenya, Uganda, \nRwanda, South Sudan and Tanzania\xa0were responsible for less\xa0than 0.2% of \nthe\xa0global\xa0carbon emissions\xa0between 1990-2015\xa0.\xa0The top 10 most \npolluting countries, including\xa0US,\xa0China\xa0and\xa0Japan\xa0were responsible \nfor\xa0500 times\xa0more\xa0carbon\xa0emissions in the same period.\xa0'], ['Zigomo added: “The incredible \nresilience of the most vulnerable people across the Horn, East, and \nCentral Africa is being tested to breaking point by a combination of \ndisasters\xa0that\xa0are not of their making.'], ['“Urgent action is needed to provide the assistance desperately needed by millions of hungry people.\xa0\xa0'], ['“World leaders must also commit to more\n ambitious cuts in carbon emissions to prevent an even more catastrophic\n rise in global temperatures.\xa0Rich polluting industrial nations need \nto\xa0provide\xa0more\xa0climate finance to help\xa0poor\xa0communities- and \nparticularly farming communities –\xa0adapt\xa0to\xa0a changing climate. They \nshould also support vulnerable countries with new sources of \ninternational finance for loss and damage\xa0caused by more extreme and \nerratic weather.”\xa0'], ['Oxfam\xa0and its partners  are\xa0supporting\xa0more than\xa0897,000 people in Ethiopia, Uganda, South  Sudan,Somalia, and Tanzania\xa0with food, clean water, sanitation, cash  assistance and seeds.\xa0Oxfam\xa0has also\xa0reached 3.5\xa0million people in September and 2.6\xa0million in October\xa0with COVID-related support.\xa0Dispatch  \xa0\xa0']]}, {'Date': 'December 4, 2020', 'Header': 'Travel: Swayne’s Hartebeest: an indigenous beauty saved by indigenous system', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], [''], ['By Etenesh Abera @EteneshAb'], ['Addis Abeba December 04/2020  – “Senkelle is the wealth of the Oromo as it is conserved by the Gada System. If the system was extended as it should have been the world would have benefited, let alone the region. The Hartebeest is counted now as one of us and thereby protected by the Geda,” says Abba Gada Qabeto Edemo, the current leader of Oda Roba of West Arsi, Arsi Asella, and Bale.'], ['Senkelle Swayne’s Hartebeest Sanctuary located between Oromia and South Nations and Nationalities region, on the way from Shashemene to Arbaminch nearby the small town called Aje, 305 Km from Addis Abeba. The Sanctuary was established in 1974, dedicated to conserving the endemic Swayne’s Hartebeest. Currently, Swayne’s Hartebeest is found in Maze National Park and Senkelle only.\xa0 Saved by the indigenous democratic socio-political system of the Oromo people that was inscribed by UNESCO, as the intangible cultural heritage of humanity in 2016, the Geda system is still the guardian for the Hartebeest and other wild animals found in Senkelle. '], ['Senkelle sanctuary, with its spectacular scenery and unique reserve of wildlife it could be a magnificent site of choice to tourists, photojournalists, and wanderers of nature. Uniquely breathtaking grassland scenery embeds the majestic Sweyne’s Hartebeest along with scattered acacia trees depicts iconic African wildlife scenery. Senkelle is also known for an excellent bird watching site seeing.'], ['Desta Bedhaso, Chief Warden of the sanctuary, said that the sanctuary is well conserved by local communities for its natural and environmental habitat, but he disclosed his concern even its existence is not well advertised.\xa0 Desta added that he has been working on the sanctuary for the last seven years and he witnesses how the local community conserved the sanctuary throughout the standard they set by their own endogenous knowledge.'], ['“As you see the sanctuary is circled by the community which does have a shortage of farming land but because it is guided by the Gada system they didn’t even settle in the sanctuary or nor did something which harms the sanctuary, not even cutting trees.” According to the chief warden, the Sanctuary contains more than 191 bird species of three endemics and two near-endemic to Ethiopia and 36 mammals including the Sweyne’s Hartebeest.'], ['Teshita Sameto, the winner of African Rangers Awards in 2018 also a community chief told Addis Standard that the Hartebeest has been a member of their tribe with Abba Gada’s decision. “I have been serving the sanctuary as a scout since 1994, after the downfall of the Dergue regime, the local community started to kill the Hartebeest in between the time of the late Abba Gada. Later Abba Gada Jara, succeeding Abba Gada, gathered all the elders and leaders of the community to make the Hartebeest as one of us,” said Teshita.'], ['According to Teshita, the nearby community is concerned about the lack of hospitality service for tourists. Additionally, he urged the government to carry out infrastructural development especially to solve the problem related to drinking water. “We are all worried about the shortage of water not only for us but also for the Hartebeests because they are being hunted by other communities while they are searching for water outside the sanctuary,” said Teshita in his final message for the government. '], ['Last month the Chairman of the Ethiopian Tourism Board, the former PM HaileMariam Desalegn, inaugurated an eco-friendly entrance for Senkelle Swayne’s Hartebeest Sanctuary which was built by a local Non-governmental Consortium called Population, Health and Environment Ethiopia Consortium – PHEEC.'], ['“The history of Senkelle is not only for Ethiopia it also works for all. This model will be a lesson for others to conserve natural, ecological, and wildlife with the help of indigenous knowledge. I do have a respect for Oromo culture and Abba Gada’s contribution to their successful intervention to keep the reserve protected.” said the chairman. '], ['In his speech, HaileMariam reflected a new norm of concept for tourism\nand conservation. He said, “The concept of conservation should be ‘Conservation\nbased tourism’ not ‘Tourism based conservation’.” The former PM is currently\nworking on his foundation ‘The HaileMariam and Roman Foundation’ on\nthe health and sustainable environment sector. '], ['Seleshi Girma, CEO of Tourism Ethiopia, said at the event that most Ethiopian National parks don’t have official entrances so the Senkelle entrance will be an ice breaking for others. “We know the pressure in which regional Parks are in but by using the indigenous knowledge and culture you give us a successful lesson how to conserve without science” Seleshi thanked the Abba Gedas. He further explained the importance of destination development and promotion in which his organization is working on. '], ['At the event, the Ethiopian Wildlife Conservation Authority and\nTourism Ethiopia signed a Memorandum of Understanding to work together on\ndestination development and promotion. '], ['Seleshi Girma said that Ethiopia is one of the leading countries in the world with having a huge tourism potential without using it properly. Seleshi in his speech also added that they are adopting the World Travel and Tourism Council Safe Travel protocols. '], ['In the interview, Seleshi added that they have planned to develop 50 new destinations in the coming ten years currently they developed seven new tourist destinations. According to the CEO they planned to have a Tourism fund that would solve the problems related to financial problems to promote the country’s tourism potential throughout the world by opening tourist information centers in different parts of the world. AS']]}, {'Date': 'November 11, 2020', 'Header': 'News: Ethiopian Human Rights Commission condemns more arrest of journalists as police keeps all incommunicado', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], [''], ['By Mahlet Fasil @MahletFasil '], [' Addis Abeba, November 11/2020 – The Ethiopian Human Rights Commission (EHRC) confirmed that four more journalists were arrested overnight. They are Haftu Gebregzhiabher, Tsegaye Hadush, & Abreha Hagos from Ethiopian Press Agency (EPA’s) and Udi Mussa from Oromia Media Network (OMN). '], ['“EHRC learned with concern the arrest of more journalists” Daniel Bekele, Commissioner of EHRC said this morning. “We reiterate our call for the respect of due & fair process.”'], ['This morning the lawyer for Addis Standard’s editor Medihane Ekubamichael, was denied access to his client from the federal police. The Addis Abeba police said yesterday that the federal police were responsible for the custody of Medihane, who was initially detained on Saturday November 07 and was rearrested after being released on Monday.'], ['The colleagues of the three EPA journalists and OMN’s Udi Mussa who spoke to Addis Standard on\xa0conditions\xa0of\xa0anonymity for fear of their safety, said all them have been kept incommunicado since their arrests. Udi was arrested yesterday. '], ['Although Daniel said they were detained overnight, a journalist at EPA said that his three colleagues: Haphtom G/Egizabeher and Tsegaye Hagos, both Editors at the state owned Ethiopian Herald Newspaper published by Ethiopian Press Agency, and Abreha Hagos, Reporter at Al-Alem , the Arabic version of EPA, were all detained since last Saturday. No family visits were allowed and no legal team is able to establish contact as of the writing of this news.'], ['.@EthioHRC learned with concern the arrest of more journalists, with EPA’s Haftu Gebregzhiabher, Tsegaye Hadush, & Abreha Hagos, as well as OMN’s Udi Mussa detained overnight.We reiterate our call for the respect of due & fair process.'], ['Yesterday Daniel tweeted saying the EHRC “expresses its concern over the re-arrest of Addis Standard’s Editor Medihane Ekubamichael and the continued detention of Bekalu Alamirew of Awlo Media “for an alleged media related offense.” '], ['The police have arrested Journalist Bekalu Alamirew on Saturday as is Medihane.'], ['“We reiterate our call for the respect of due & fair process & will keep monitoring the situation”, Daniel said. AS ']]}, {'Date': 'November 10, 2020', 'Header': 'News Alert: Police rearrest Addis Standard’s editor', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], [''], ['By Mahlet Fasil @MahletFasil '], ['Addis Abeba, November 10/2020\xa0–\xa0The police on duty at Addis Abeba police station have this afternoon rearrested Medihane Ekubamichael, product editor at Addis Standard publication. '], ['Update: Team AS is happy to confirm that @Medihane is released from police custody, where he was held since Saturday. There is nothing to warrant the remand & investigation of him for 14 days!We thank everyone who reached out offering help and comfort. #JournalismIsNotACrime! pic.twitter.com/zRMUllMD0F'], ['Medihane was first detained on Saturday November 07 by members of the city’s police and take to undisclosed location. He was later on detained at Addis Abeba police in Piassa. The police brought Medihane on November 09 to the federal first instance court where they were granted 14 days to remand and investigate him. The police initially accused Medihane of   attempts to dismantle the constitution through violence,” and “outrage against the constitution.” Later on the same day, he was released with only having to show an ID card. '], ['However, the police on duty told him that he should return today (November 10) to take his personal belongings, including his passport which was confiscated from Medihane’s residence without a court warrant. '], ['Medihane went back to the station this afternoon but was rearrested instead.'], ['A defense lawyer assigned by JAKENN Publishing PLC to represent Medihane was told by the police on duty that Medihane was detained with the Addis Abeba police “only for temporary keeping” and that his real custody belongs “to the federal police.” '], ['“His rearrest is the epitome of the flaunting of law and order by the same forces who are supposed to protect innocent civilians; Jakenn Publishing PLC is closely following his case and will pursue all legal avenues to secure his release,” said Tsedale Lemma, the editor-in-chief of Addis Standard publication. AS']]}, {'Date': 'November 9, 2020', 'Header': 'New Alert: Police detain Addis Standard’s editor, accuse him of attempt to dismantle the constitution', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], [''], ['By Mahlet Fasil @MahletFasil '], ['Addis Abeba, November 09/2020 – Members of Addis Abeba and federal police officer have on Saturday arrested  Medihane Ekubamichael, product editor at Addis Standard publication.'], ['Jakenn Publishing PLC, the publishers of Addis Standard publication, confirmed that Medihane was arrested and initially taken to undisclosed location on Saturday November 07, from his house in Addis Abeba. Medihane was at a regular editorial meeting on Saturday until 2:30 PM local time with the remaining staff members in the office.'], ['Medihane was presented this morning at the Federal First Instant Court where the police received 14 days to remand him and investigate him. The police accused Medihane of “attempts to dismantle the constitution through violence,” and “outrage against the constitution.” He is currently held at Addis Abeba Police in Piassa. '], ['The police have arrested him without a warrant, but returned to his residence on Sunday and searched the house in the absence of his wife, who was trying to locate his whereabouts. Police have confiscated his passport, ID cards, and personal laptop from the house.'], ['“Medihane is an essential part of our newsroom and has proved his journalistic integrity at a time when independent media is increasingly under pressure from different interest groups. We urge the police to expedite his release. His absence at this critical moment when journalism is needed more than anytime else will greatly affect our ability to provide timely information,” said Tsedale Lemma, Editor-in-Chief of Addis Standard publication.  '], ['The polcie have received 14 days to remand and investigate Medihane. His next hearing is is adjourned until November 22. '], ['Medihane is the second journalist to be arrested and presented to court since the federal government’s military offensive in Tigray region was announced in early hours of  November 04.'], [' On the same day the police have arrested Journalist Bekalu Alamirew of Awlo Media, an online based media, from his office. The police have also confiscated the media company’s equipment including three laptop computers a hard disk, voice recorders, his cellphone, memory cards other documents.  '], ['On November 06, Bekalu has appeared in court, according to Awlo Media. The police have accused Bekalu of interviewing Tigray region officials, producing reports undermining the government, producing articles in order to defame the government and undermine its credibility in collaboration with foreign forces, producing articles photographs aimed at inciting inter-communal violence, and inciting a civil war. The police have asked 14 days to remand and investigate Bekalu, but were given 6 days instead. The court has adjourned the next hearing until November 12. AS    '], [' '], [' ']]}]
[{'Date': 'August 14, 2020', 'Header': 'News: Security forces suspend community radio station in Sodo; shut down local civil society org. office', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], [''], ['By Medihane Ekubamichael'], ['Addis Abeba, August 14/2020 –  Wogeta FM 96.6, a renowned community radio station based in Sodo city, the capital of Wolaita zone in SNNPRS, was ordered to cease broadcasting as of this morning by members of the federal security forces. Journalists working for the station were also prevented to accessing the studio, Mesfin Heliso, manager of the station, told Addis Standard. '], ['According to Mesfin, Wogeta FM is a reputable radio station considered as the voice of the Wolaita community and operates abiding by the Ethiopian Broadcast Authority’s regulations. “We have been ordered to cease broadcasting and evacuate the premises and stay away from the vicinity without getting any further detail on who ordered the closure and why,” he said.  '], ['Wolaita zone was a scene of six days sustained protests which started on Sunday August 09  when members of the federal police and the federal army detained at least 26 people, including  Dagato Kumbe, Wolaita Zone administrator, and Muluneh Woldetsadik, deputy president of the Wolaita Zone high court, during a meeting they were attending inside the city’s   Gutera conference hall. The arrested officials also include members of the council for Wolaita statehood request and  opposition party members from Wolaita National  Movement (WNM), representatives of civil society organizations and activists. '], ['Update: Amidst widespread protests, a court in #Sodo released all the 19 people on bail today. Protests intensified in most parts of #Wolaita with protesters carrying banners with messages including "we asked a regional state, not a war."Until now most activities remained closed. pic.twitter.com/Wc48eqG2HA'], ['According to Mesfin, the station, being a nearby voice of the community, has aired an interview with Dagato Kumbe, who assured the community after the detainees including himself were released on bail by Wolaita Zone high court late yesterday. '], ['Fekadu Dana, a journalist at the radio station, also told Addis Standard that “around 7:00 am [this morning] six staff of the station including myself were at our post to prepare the daily news that runs at 8:30 am. Armed member of the military came to our station at the Gutera hall compound and gave us a firm order to shut everything and leave the area immediately,“  he added: “We then left and sat in a cafe inside Nega International Hotel for most part of the day while members of the military were monitoring us from the entrance,” Fikadu said. He added that they were afraid of being arrested if they left so they stayed inside while security forces kept monitoring the area. \xa0\xa0\xa0 '], ['In addition to Mesfin, other staffs who stayed on the scene include Ashenafi Admasu, Program head and management member, Tsega Timotewos Journalist, Netsanet Ataro, technical head and management member, and Motolomi Timotiwos, marketing and promotion head and management member. They were all prevented from getting in to the radio station to work at their posts. '], ['Late this afternoon protesters started gathering near the hotel when the news spread that the journalists and their colleagues were holed up inside the hotel. Subsequently, members of the security left the scene, allowing the journalists and their colleagues to leave for their homes safe.  '], ['Wogeta FM 96.6 station started streaming on December 11, 2017 with a license registered by the Ethiopian Broadcast Authority (EBA). The station is known for its local language contents serving the Wolaita community, who are not a focus of Ethiopia’s legacy media establishment.'], ['Yeshiworq Girma, head of Media Follow-up Directorate  at the Ethiopian Broadcasting Authority (EBA) said that the Authority was informed about the situation and were looking at it through the complaint procedure; they are yet to find out the details, according to Yeshiwork. '], ['Wogeta FM served as the prime source of information during the protest in the last six days when internet data was disconnected. It has reported its news from the areas where protests were happening and about the nature of heavy-handed response from the federal and regional security forces. '], ['In a report it released today, Amnesty International says at least 16 people were killed by security forces, including “a boy who was homeless and a woman with a mental disability, neither of whom were participating in the protests. No one should be killed for  exercising their right to freedom of peaceful assembly or for being  around a protest,” Amnesty said.'], ['“The authorities must urgently stop the use of lethal force in the  context of protests and thoroughly, effectively and impartially  investigate these killings. All those found responsible must be brought  to justice in fair trials. Victims and their families must also have  access to adequate reparations,”  Deprose Muchena, Amnesty International’s Director for East and Southern Africa, said. \xa0 '], ['The establishment of Wogeta FM is largely attributed to the support provided by Wolaita Development Association (WDA), which coordinated the community’s support for the establishment of the radio station, which currently has 36 permanent and freelance journalists and support staff members.'], ['WDA’s office itself has been shut down as of yesterday evening by armed members the federal security forces, according to Tamirat Matiwos, WDA vice chairperson. Tamirat told Addis Standard that the association was known for its engagement in local development works in areas of capacity building, sustainable living condition improvement and integrated public health services since its establishment on June 20, 1957 by prominent Wolaita native, Dejach Woldesemayat Gebrewold. In recognition Dejach Woldesemayat was bestowed with honorary doctorate degree by Wolaita Sodo University (WSU) in recent past. It is not clear who ordered the members of the federal security forces to close WDA’s office and deny its staffs from accessing the premises.'], ['Led by Habtamu Timotios, WDA is also known for establishing Wolaita Liqa School, a recognized community model school among the community. Habtamu is an advocate of Wolaita zone’s request for self determination and regional state status. As such, he was one of the detainees who were arrested on 9th August.'], ['Addis Standard’s repeated attempts to speak to Tessema Utula, Wolaita zone peace and security  bureau head, were unsuccessful after he declined to speak to the media on both issues. AS']]}, {'Date': 'August 12, 2020', 'Header': 'Book Review: Oromo Witness: A people’s history of the Bale Oromo movement', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], [''], [''], ['Reviewed by Mohammed Ademo (@OPride)'], ['Addis Abeba, August 12/2020 – In the Ethiopian popular imagination, emperors and rulers are glorified, lionized and monumentalized while the stories and histories of those who resisted their oft-brutal rules are silenced.'], ['The oral\narchives of many of Ethiopia’s peoples are replete with rich stories of\nresistance and resilience that have much to teach us about the country’s\ncomplex history and its peoples struggles to preserve their ways of life. '], ['One such story is about the life, legend,\nand legacy of Waqo Gutu Usu, which is ubiquitous in the oral Oromo chronicles.'], ['General Waqo, who died in 2006, was the\nleader of the Bale Oromo movement which fiercely challenged three successive\nEthiopian regimes: Haileselassie, the Derg, and the EPRDF. '], ['At their finest hour, in the\nextraordinary 1960s decade, the Bale freedom fighters skillfully eluded and\nweighed down Haileselassie’s well-armed, well-trained and well-equipped\narmy—making the province virtually ungovernable. It was an unprecedented and\nremarkable feat in the annals of that period. The emperor was so fearsome, and\nhis power so absolute, that his subjects prostrated themselves before him. Waqo\nand his compatriots defied this mythical norm in launching an organized armed\nrebellion against the monarchy’s oppressive feudal system. '], ['Unfortunately, the history of the Bale people’s revolt (1963–1970) and its resolute protagonists remains largely undocumented. In his debut book, Oromo Witness (scheduled for release on August 15), Abdul Dire, himself a descendant of the earliest torchbearers, recounts an epic saga of courage, resistance, perseverance, and sacrifice as told to him by one of Waqo’s faithful disciples, Hangasu Waqo Lugo. '], ['Ethiopianist historiography depicts the Bale region as “ye shifta Ager” and truncates the history of the movement as an inconsequential “peasant” uprising. Oromo Witness, a subjective memoir of Hangasu’s experiences in the Bale revolt, is the first of its kind written from the perspective of the people. It brings to life, in over 235 pages, the underdog history of an extraordinary struggle for justice and equality through the lens of a participant observer. '], ['The book narrates, (re)members and memorializes the bravery and heroic exploits of Waqo Lugo, Muhammad Gada Qalu, Hussein Bune Darara, Isaq Dadhi Tarre, Adam Jilo, Kadir Waqo Shaqe, Aliyyi Cirri and other compatriots of the Bale movement.'], ['My grandfather, Ademo Cirri, died in the\nlate 1960s fighting in the Sowra Dhombir\nor the Dhombir war against\nHaileselassie’s imperial regime. Growing up, the names of the Bale revolt\nleaders and fragments of their stories was a household tale. Abdul’s marvelous\nbook documents, contextualizes, and gives voice to the people and stories I\nheard from my father, who also participated in the sowra. These heroes and their stories are conspicuously absent from\nEthiopian historiography and collective remembering. (The revolt is known by\nthe Bale people as Sowra/Weyra Dhombir,\nmeaning the Dhombir revolution or war. Dhombir\nis the non-automatic rifle used by the Bale fighters). '], ['Oromo\nWitness skillfully and vividly captures not only\nthe deeds of these freedom fighters but also the hills and valleys through\nwhich they traversed in pursuit of justice and diplomatic support for their\nstruggle. '], ['The Bale Oromo fighters rebelled because they were denied a dignified existence on their ancestral land. They opposed an exploitative system of government that expropriated land and reduced the native population to the status of serfs. They resisted a feudal, gabbar system that looted their livestock, butter, and honey.'], ['The Bale fighters knew that the existence\nof the Oromo people as a collective depended on their conscious acts of\nresistance. They had a simple motto: To\nroot out tyranny in all of its forms in their lifetime, or, failing that, to\nraise a generation to finish the task. But the brave fighters did not have\nthe hardware or training they needed to take on a feared monarchical army. '], ['So, they turned to a friendly neighbor,\nSomalia, using pre-existing people-to-people linkages and exchanges. Their\ndiplomatic maneuvers helped for a time, but they soon ran into the fundamentals\nof realpolitik. Somali authorities wanted to use the Bale fighters as pawns in\ntheir expansionist Greater Somalia ambitions. It was a dilemma of epic\nproportions. The state requires you to give up your identity to exist; the ally\nrequires you to give up your identity to resist. But it was of course a bargain\nthe Oromo rebels could not accept. Undeterred, Waqo and his struggle stalwarts\nsoldiered on, convinced by the singularity of their aim and the righteousness\nof their cause. '], ['In the end, after several failed attempts\nto crush the movement, Haileselassie was forced to sign a truce to put down the\nrebellion. The intergenerational Oromo struggle did not end there. Waqo’s\ngeneration had to start over a couple of times. Much has changed for the Oromo\npeople since Waqo’s death. The EPRDF regime that exiled him is no more. But\nAbdul reminds us that we can’t rest on our laurels, as there is still much work\nthat remains to be done.'], ['The author first met General Waqo Gutu\nwhen he was 15 years old. The battle-tested leader impressed upon him the\nimportance of education as a tool to fulfill the dreams of Oromo emancipation.\nAbdul recalls that he “did not have an answer” for the revered General’s\nquestions at the time. By writing Oromo\nWitness, Abdul has now honored his ancestors and fulfilled his own and\ntheir dreams, too. '], ['Hangasu, the main protagonist in the book\nis now in his 60s. He’s one of the few remaining living witnesses of the Bale\npeople’s struggle. Abdul has written a profile-in-courage of Hangasu and those\nwho inspired, shaped, and molded him. Hangasu’s courage, strength, and\nendurance are awe-inspiring.'], ['Even in snowy Minnesota, where his\nexperiences and his lifelong struggle for liberty did not always work in his\nfavor, as Abdul notes distressfully, Hangasu continues to organize the Oromo.\nLike his uncle Waqo Gutu, Hangasu has championed education as a tool for\nliberation. He now builds schools and sponsors young students.'], ['Oromo\nWitness is a book about the conspicuous\ngallantry, intrepidity and ingenuity of the Bale movement leaders. The\nsilences, omissions, and erasures – deliberate\nor otherwise – of the Bale rebellion and other resistance movements (of\nSomali, Sidama, Wolaita, etc) from the mainstream narrative is an indictment on\nEthiopian history. The proper acknowledgment of the pains and memories of the\nhitherto oppressed masses could serve as a prelude to a more equal, just,\ninclusive, and hopeful future for all Ethiopians where all forms of injustices\nare uprooted. '], ['Abdul has challenged us to bear witness to the sacrifices of Bale resistance leaders; to memorialize their victories; to pick up the torch and move the goalpost further afield. I hope this book inspires others to write about the (hi)stories of other silenced struggles both as a way of reckoning with our complex past and as an enduring monument to the broad shoulders that have enabled my generation to proudly sing, Jirra (We are here. We exist). AS'], ['_______________________________________//_________________________________'], ['Editor’s Note: Mohammed Ademo is the founder and editor of OPride.com, a website about Oromo and Ethiopia.']]}, {'Date': 'August 7, 2020', 'Header': 'News: Police accuses Asrat Media journalists, camera crew of inciting communal violence through broadcast', 'news_paragraphs': [[' '], [''], [''], ['Addis Abeba, August 07/2020 – Police brought four members of  Asrat Media  to Federal First Instance Court Arada Branch where they were granted 13 more days to remand & investigate the four. Inn addition to journalists Belay Manaye & Mulugeta Anberbir, cameramen Misganaw Kefelegn & Yonatan Mulugeta were arrested, Asrat Media reported. '], ['#Ethiopia: Asrat Media said its journalists Belay Manaye & Mulugeta Anberbir were told they were "wanted" & taken by members of the federal police on July 05. Their whereabouts isn\'t disclosed. AS\'s attempt to get comments from Fed. police communication bureau is to no avail yet. https://t.co/lMPKOhUi2i'], ['The police accused the four of using the media to incite communal violence. As per Asrat Media, the police said the accused were involved in broadcasting inciting programs through Asrat TV, (which was recently closed by the government), between November 2019 & June 2020 saying that the Amhara people were being repressed, and that the government was unable to protect the Amhara people. '], ['The police further allege that these broadcasts have caused communal violence in places such as Dembi Dollo and Oda Bulto in Oromia regional state which resulted in the death of civilians and property damage. The Police requested the additional days to dispatch team of investigators in these areas. '], ['On their part the four accused members of Asrat Media complained that they were not tested for coronavirus when they were placed in detention and that they were held together with other people who are also not tested for the virus. The cell they are held at is also located to a bathroom and is unclean, which is exacerbating journalist Belay Manaye’s previous sinus problem. Asrat Media has previously reported that families were denied access to provide food and clothing to the accused. AS '], [' ']]}, {'Date': 'August 6, 2020', 'Header': 'News: Ethio Lease hands Over $7 M worth agricultural mechanization equipment to farmers', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], ['Addis Abeba, August 06/ 2020 – Ethio Lease, the first foreign-owned leasing company, today handed over 16 combine harvesters to farmers and unions. The agricultural mechanization equipment are delivered to the farmers in line with the government’s strategy and the collaborative Memorandum of Understanding, Ethio Lease signed with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Agricultural Transformation Agency. The agreement came to effect to enable smallholder farmers who will not afford to buy agro-mechanization equipment by themselves. '], ['The latest delivery of combine harvesters\nto the farmers brings the total number of agricultural equipment being\ndelivered to farmers to 100 with a total worth of more than $7 million\nfulfilling the commitment the company made to the farmers and the agricultural\nsector.\xa0'], ['The\nCompany is also finalizing the import of dozens of combine harvesters worth $10\nmillion which are expected to arrive in September and October. These combines are\nintended for the main harvest season. '], ['Girum Tsegaye, Ethio Lease CEO, speaking during the event, said “the continued arrival of these agricultural equipment demonstrates our commitment in supporting the country’s agricultural mechanization endeavor in lieu of solving foreign exchange issues to import such critical equipment.” He further stated “Sustainable agricultural mechanization can play a key role in enabling recovery and building long-term resilience of the farming community. Mechanization can improve efficiency, productivity and income in agriculture endeavor, and enhances food security and livelihoods of farmers.”'], ['In addition to supporting farmers, Ethio Lease’s\nventure is generating employment opportunities to operators, assistant\noperators, operation managers, agronomists, and the youth.\xa0'], ['Ethio Lease is a subsidiary of Africa Asset Finance Company Inc. (AAFC). The company began operations in August 2019 after receiving a license from the National Bank of Ethiopia. It was formed to address the equipment and forex shortages in Ethiopia by providing capital goods financing and a wide range of leasing services for multiple sectors such as agriculture, healthcare, energy, food processing (coffee processing), and manufacturing, among other verticals.'], ['Ethio Lease buys and imports equipment and oversees its maintenance and proper use throughout the lease period. Typically, the lessee will have an option to buy the equipment from the company at the end of the lease period. '], ['Since its launch, Ethio Lease has provided leasing services to address equipment shortages in the agriculture, healthcare, energy, and food processing sectors, including some in manufacturing. To date, Ethio Lease has signed leasing agreements with more than 100 customers. Dispatch']]}, {'Date': 'June 9, 2020', 'Header': 'News: Ethiopia’s humanitarian support requirement revised to US$ 1.65 b targeting 16 m people, more than double the appeal in Jan.', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], [''], ['US$ 1.65 billion required to address COVID-19 and other humanitarian needs of 16.5 million people, up from the\xa0US$1 billion appeal made in January 2020 targeting  7 million people. '], ['With just $288.3 million international  contribution thus far, the revised requirement faces an urgent gap of $1.36  billion. Some  critical,  life-saving   sectors  have received no or minimal funding, including emergency shelter  and  non-food items, protection, logistics, emergency education, agriculture and health '], ['Addis Abeba, June 09/2020:  The Government of Ethiopia and humanitarian partners released today a revised 2020 humanitarian requirement outlining additional humanitarian priorities since the release of the 2020 Humanitarian Response Plan on  28 January. This joint Government and humanitarian partners’ document is  targeting 16.5 million people with emergency food and non-food assistance at a cost of US$1.65 billion, UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (UNOCHA) said. '], ['The annual joint government and humanitarian partners’ document released on January 28/2020 targeted 7 million people with emergency food and non-food assistance and was estimated to cost US$1 billion. The targeted beneficiaries of the humanitarian support was reduced from the 8.3 million people targeted at the beginning of 2019, which the UN hailed was “a result of  better targeting of the most acute needs this year.” The joint document is now revised to US$1.65 billion targeting  16.5 million people.    \xa0“The spike in humanitarian needs is mainly due to COVID-19-related  multi-sector impact. $506 million of the $1.65 billion revised  requirement is for COVID-19 impact response. Of the 16.5 million people targeted for humanitarian response, 9.8 million people are targeted for COVID-19-related interventions.”  \xa0Before the COVID-19 pandemic hit the country in March 2020, the major  drivers of humanitarian need in Ethiopia were, and continue to be today,  food insecurity, displacement, disease outbreaks, rain shortfalls in some parts of the country and floods in others. In addition, the worst  desert locust infestation reported in 25 years hit Ethiopia and  neighboring countries in late 2019 and continues to affect many communities to date, leading to livelihood loss and deepening food insecurity. \xa0The Commissioner of the National Disaster Risk Management Commission  (NDRMC), Mr. Mitiku Kassa, noted that “like many countries around the  world, Ethiopia has been dealing with the unforeseen threat paused by  the COVID-19 pandemic since March 2020. The Government of Ethiopia has  been taking the necessary measures to prevent further spread of the  virus and boost mitigation and preparedness measures. COVID-19 is our  immediate focus. However, we will not lose sight of the multi-faceted  and simultaneous humanitarian challenges across the country, including  food insecurity, desert locust, floods and protracted displacement. All  these are further compounded by the pandemic.” \xa0On her part, Dr. Catherine Sozi, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator  for Ethiopia, stated that “COVID-19 pandemic is a health crisis first.  Weak health systems are being stretched beyond capacity. The daily  number of new COVID-19 cases has been drastically increasing since the  second week of May. Gains made in other health outbreaks also risk  relapsing. Cholera cases are being reported. Measles, yellow fever and  other diseases should also not be overlooked. COVID-19 pandemic is also  an economic crisis. Income losses as a result of slowing economic growth  and unemployment threaten the lives and livelihoods of millions of food  insecure and vulnerable Ethiopians.” \xa0 “Today, more than ever, the Government and people of Ethiopia need the  steadfast support from international partners. The country needs urgent  additional financing to not only control the pandemic before it further  spreads across the country, but to also mitigate the adverse impact of  COVID-19 on the already dire humanitarian context,” added Dr. Sozi. \xa0At federal level, the COVID-19 response is coordinated by the national  Emergency Coordination Center led by the NDRMC Commissioner.  Regional-level coordination centers/ taskforces have also been  established, mirroring federal coordination mechanisms. Humanitarian  partners (UN and INGOs) are supporting the Government response to  COVID-19 and other humanitarian needs.\xa0 Humanitarian partners have  also committed over $ 150 million to the COVID-19 National Emergency  Response Plan through re-programming existing funds, whilst continuing  to mobilize additional resources. UNOCHA/AS \xa0']]}]
[{'Date': 'May 26, 2020', 'Header': 'Analysis: The role of the Qeerroo in future Oromo politics', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], ['By Terje Østebø @tostebo '], ['Addis Abeba, May 26/2020 – The Qeerroo movement emerged as a significant political actor in the course of the Oromo protest, and has since then followed a complex trajectory. Starting off as a massive opposition movement, it became instrumental in the transition that brought PM Abiy Ahmed to power, yet has become more critical towards him. There are many unknowns when it comes to the Qeerroo, and it is in particular relevant to ask where the movement is today, how last years’ political changes have impacted the movement, and what potential role it may play in future politics. \xa0In this analysis, which is based on travels and conversations with people at the grassroots across the Oromia region in early 2020 and on over 20 years of research among the Oromo, I try to address these questions. '], ['The Qeerroo rose to fame in 2014 through widespread protests among youth across Oromia. Spurred by the proposed new Addis Abeba and Surrounding Master-plan and fueled by underlying despair, the protesters soon called for the overthrow of the government. The authorities’ response to the protests was rather heavy-handed, resulting in an unknown number of casualties. As the protests continued unabated, the government answered by declaring two rounds of state of emergency – the first in October 2016 after the Irrecha incident, and the second in February 2018 at the time of Prime Minister Hailemariam Dessalegn’s resignation. The arrival of Team Lemma with that-time chairperson of OPDO and President of Oromia Lemma Megerssa and his OPDO deputy Abiy Ahmed signaled more positive attitudes towards the Qeerroo, underscored by Lemma Megerssa’s vow to “address the legitimate concerns of the youth.” This soon earned the two significant support among the Oromo protesters, and the Qeerroo became a key ally for Abiy Ahmed as he took over as prime minister in April 2018.\xa0 '], ['The Qeerroo hence claimed a\nstake in the government, and Team Lemma’s Oromo nationalist rhetoric created\nstrong expectations among the Oromo, who saw the new Abiy-era as a “now it’s\nour turn” moment. Prompted by unprecedented political reforms enthusiasm for\nAbiy Ahmed quickly spread beyond the Oromo constituency to the broader\nEthiopian population, making the first months of his tenure characterized by a\nparticular “Abiy-mania.” '], ['The “honeymoon” soon came to an end, however, and Abiy Ahmed’s popularity gradually gave way for increased skepticism. The first signs of outright opposition came in September 2018, when celebration of the return of the OLF forces caused fighting and killings in the town of Burayu at the outskirts of Addis Abeba. This incident was followed by increased unrest and instability across the country, with conflicts in Gedeo-West Guji, Qemant in Amhara, Konso in the southern region, along the Somali-Oromo borderlands, and disputes over the Wolkait area in Tigray. The number of internally displaced skyrocketed to a world record of over three million, and people started to question Abiy Ahmed’s ability to maintain law and order. '], ['The\nOromo protests had significant impact on local administrative structures,\ntemporarily limiting the state’s presence in every corner of the Oromia region.\nThis presence had been secured through elaborate local governance structures\ndown to the grassroots, where the kebele\ncontrolled almost everything: public health, delivery of agricultural support,\nmaintenance of the surrounding peace and security, and provisions of social\nwelfare. State-presence became even more enhanced when the government, prior to\nthe national election in 2010, started the process of dividing\nthe\xa0kebele\xa0into even smaller units, known as\xa0gott\xa0and\xa0garee.\nEach household in a\xa0gott\xa0was later organized into what became\nknown as the one-to-five networks, in which one model farmer was given the\nresponsibility for leading and following up with five other households. While\nthese elaborate structures were intended to serve as a key tool in Ethiopia’s\nquest for development and social change, they became very important tools for\nthe government in securing political control over the grassroots. '], ['In the course of the Oromo\nprotests, local government structures were attacked across Oromia. Kebele buildings were burned and\ndestroyed, and local officials chased away. This was in particular prominent\nduring the so-called “week of rage” in response to the Irrecha\nincident in October 2016. It is difficult to determine to what extent the local\nadministrative structures were affected. In West Shoa the Qeerroo more or less\ndismantled the whole kebele structure:\nchasing kebele leaders away, burning\ndown their homes and kebele offices,\nand confiscating guns from the militias. There is no indication that these were\ncoordinated efforts, and attacks appeared to be rather selective. According to\none of my informants “it was the corrupt officials, those who had participated\nin the cheating during elections that were targeted.”'], ['In other instances, the Qeerroo took over local\nadministration and in many areas, they played an instrumental role in securing\nlaw and order. At kebele level in some\nrural areas the Qeerroo acted as\nshadow-governments. As expressed by one informant, “the local authorities needed to consult\nwith the Qeerroo when they made decisions.” In Harar, for example\nthe Qeerroo turned off the water to the walled city for weeks in July 2018, demanding\nten million birr to support 15,000 unemployed youth in Haramaya in return for\nwater supplies. While the situation has, as I will return to, changed, informants\ngenerally agree that the Qeerroo remains an important political actor and force\nin many rural areas.'], ['During\nthe protests there were cases where local Qeerroo groups took matters in their\nown hands, where old scores were settled, and where brutal acts of violence\nwere committed. Lack of effective governing structures moreover unveiled\ninternal tensions among the Qeerroo, leading, in some cases, to conflicts between\ndifferent Qeerroo groups. In one kebele outside\nHaramaya in Hararge, for example, different groups fought over control over the\nlocal administration – particularly over who would control the finance office.\nThe conflict went so far that local community had to appeal to the federal army\nto solve the situation. Internal divisions was, as I have discussed\nelsewhere, also noticeable in Robe Bale, where the Qeerroo was divided between\nthe Christian Shoa Oromo and the Muslim Arsi Oromo. Religion in these areas\nhave been intimately tied to ethnic identities, and where the complex relations\nbetween the Christian Shoa Oromo and Muslim Arsi Oromo also impacted the\nQeerroo movement. Informants\nattributed this to the movement’s lack of organizational structures, and one\nargued that “they don’t have any\nultimate goal and formal leadership… all they do is to fight among themselves.”'], ['This brings\nus to the question of what kind of movement the Qeerroo actually is. Foreign\nobservers, Ethiopian political analysts, and many ordinary Ethiopians have struggled\nto define it and to identify its internal structures. The Qeerroo is said to be\nformally organized as the National Oromian Youth Movement, which had its own homepage. It\nis, however, doubtful that this is the main representative body of the\nmovement. Some claim that it\nemerged in the 1990s as part of the\xa0 Oromo\nLiberation Front (OLF), while others argue that\nthe Qeerroo started around 2005, as an underground network called “Qeerroo\nBlisumma Oromia” (Qeerroo for the Freedom of Oromia). Recently Qarree has\nappeared as the female counterpart to the male Qeerroo, and some even claim\nthat the Qarree “recently has been formalized.”'], ['It is\ndifficult to verify these claims. It emerged as a spontaneous grassroots social\nmovement without any formal structures. It has been argued that\nthe word Qeerroo itself refers to an unmarried person between 20 and 36 – an\ninterpretation generally shared by the local informants. \xa0It is therefore possible to say that the Qeerroo\nexists both in a “latent” mode as the masses of the Oromo youth and in a\n“manifest” mode as the protesting Oromo youth.\xa0\n'], ['This\ndoes not mean, however, that the movement was completely uncoordinated. The\nmobilization of any social movement or, in this case, the “manifestation” of\nthe Qeerroo, requires some kind of coordination. Crucial here is that this was\nof an informal and decentered manner. While the Qeerroo – as Oromo youth – was\n(and is) found across Oromia, both in urban and rural areas, it was only in the\nurban areas, i.e. smaller and larger towns that one could talk about any\norganizational structures. This usually had the form of informal leadership\ngroups, often without any designated leader. There were no formal election\nprocesses, and one Qeerroo leader in Bale said that “the youth just came together and\nchose the ones they liked and thought were the best.” Such leaders played the\nrole of organizers, and while influential, the informal structures limited\ntheir reach. In many towns, there were often different Qeerroo “teams”\noperating in different neighborhoods. '], ['\xa0What seems clear, however, is that there\nexisted very limited horizontal structures among the Qeerroo across Oromia. Key were the vertical\nstructures wherein Jawar Mohammed was – and still is – the main hub: “Everything went through Jawar,\nit is he who gave the orders.” According to one informant, the main tool has\nbeen Facebook: '], ['“He [Jawar Mohammed]\nwould post something on Facebook, and everyone would know it, he was the hub.\nHe was also the first to establish independent Oromo TV… The horizontal\ncommunication was between different leaders of different Qeerroos in different\nvillages. The leaders knew who the other leaders were, and they would call them\nif something was happening. But the hub was Jawar.”'], ['Some\nindividuals communicated directly with him via phone. As internet is not\nreadily available in many rural areas, Qeerroo leaders in the towns would transmit\ninstructions via phone or text to those in their rural surroundings. The\nQeerroo managed, moreover, to find ways to communicate during the period of\ninternet blackout. One Qeerroo leader in Hararghe said, for example, that people “would travel either to\nWajale [border-town with Somaliland], to Addis, or even to Somaliland or\nDjibouti – and check internet and report back to people.” Messages would\nsubsequently simply be spread by word of mouth within different localities. '], ['While the informal and\ndecentered character of the Qeerroo has been crucial for the success of the\nmovement during the protests – giving it much flexibility and making it evade attacks\nby the security forces – lack of organizational structures could also make it\nsusceptible to interference from the government. '], ['Abiy Ahmed’s government was for some\ntime unable to rebuild effective local administrative\nstructures. In many areas it proved difficult to recruit local officials as no\none wanted to take the positions of the kebele\nofficials who had fled. In areas administered by the military Command Post,\nit was the army that was tasked with rebuilding the structures, in some cases\nalso forcing people to fill the offices. As members of the local community, kebele officials often find themselves\nin a difficult situation of being the agents of the state and, at the same\ntime, representing the people vs. the state. Whereas there are variations, it\nseems clear that the new local officials became increasingly conscious about\nbeing representatives of their communities. It is, at the same time, clear that\nthe services provided at kebele level\nhave become limited. Lack of coherent and effective administrative structures have\nalso paved the way for corruption at the kebele\nlevel – and consequently led to a great deal of discontent among the\npopulation. This seems to have prevailed in many areas, and one informant\nexpressed this as follows:'], ['“They [kebele officials] are\nnot serving the people at all. What they do now is selling people’s sugar and\noil, snatching money from our women, selling ID card to outsiders. You can’t\nfind any of them in their office, they work from the chat houses. Nobody controls them.”'], ['The government has since late\n2019 intensified its efforts to rebuild local administrative structures. At the\nworreda level, the process has been less\ninclusive than at the kebele level. In\nmany places people were presented with a pre-screened list of possible\ncandidates to take up positions in the worredas.\nMost of these were from the local community, but they were all old OPDO cadres.\nPeople were not much satisfied with the choices, but were left with no other\noption than to accept them.'], ['The general sentiment among\ninformants is that not much has changed at the worreda level in terms of local governance. One said that “the people at worreda level are like a replica of\nthe old guard. They are all cadres from the old party, and there is no\ndifference.” There are indications that worreda administrations, since late 2019, have become more\neffective– reflected in a better functioning local police, re-establishment of\nlaw and order, and provision of services. The restructuring has, at the same\ntime, also led to increased control, and informants claimed that “the old\ncommand structure is being re-established.” According to one informant: “it is the same corrupted thieves\nthat are in charge. Abiy has been talking about forgiveness, but when corrupted\nleaders are not held accountable, how can they be forgiven?”'], ['The restoration of local\nadministrational structures also entailed integration of the Qeerroo. A common\npattern was that local Qeerroo leaders were given positions within youth and\nsports offices, and in addition to providing these individuals with steady\nsalaries, they were also given access to new resources. These resources were\noften used for their own benefits and redistributed to other Qeerroo leaders,\nwhich, according to some informants opened the door for corruption: “All of a\nsudden they start to do business – mostly with the government apparatus. The\nlocal administrations handed lots of projects to the Qeerroo.” This generated infighting\nbetween different local Qeerroo groups. '], ['While some of the Qeerroo leaders were coopted by Abyi’s regime, the overwhelming portion of Oromo youth have become the most explicit critics of Abiy Ahmed’s government. This became noticeable in October 2019 when the government tried to remove Jawar Mohammed’s security detail and more pronounced when Abiy Ahmed dissolved the EPRDF coalition and created the Prosperity Party (PP) in December 2019. This was, by many, seen as a betrayal of the Oromo. They fiercely denounced the PP as a unitary party and argued that this was the start of the return of Amhara domination. The newly established Unity Park in Addis Abeba became proof of this, and the youth particularly complained about the park’s pictures of emperors Menelik and Haile Selassie. One informant lamented that: “there is only one Oda tree in the park – of plastic, and there is no mention of atrocities like Anole.” Opposition based on ethno-nationalist rhetoric was underpinned by a prevailing harsh socio-economic situation – and the discrepancy between this and the youth’s high expectations of a “quick fix” solution to be brought by Abiy Ahmed. Lack of tangible socio-economic change has not only brought the youth back to a perpetual sense of marginalization, hopelessness and despair, but broken expectations have furthermore exacerbated this situation, adding to, and reinforcing their disappointment, discontent, and anger. As one Qeerroo activist expressed it: “there has been no development, everything is like before.”'], ['There are, however, some Qeerroo\nleaders who initially supported Abiy Ahmed, and who have found it difficult to\nretract their support. The fact that they had been rewarded with positions\nwithin the system has obviously contributed to this, and points to how the integration\nof the Qeerroo into local administrations also enabled the government to sow\ndivisions among the movement’s leaders. '], ['More significant is how the ruling party actively and\ndeliberately has sought to recruit and coopt influential individuals within the\nQeerroo movement. This is part of a larger strategy to create a “Qeerroo\nHaaromsaa” – or a Reform Qeerroo. The Qeerroo Haaromsaa launched a Facebook\npage with the same name, which, however, has been inactive since August 2018. Efforts\nof cooption have been carried out by local administrators, who in return for Qeerroo\nleaders’ support to PP have provided them with cash and other benefits. These\nare in particular people from the urban areas with higher education and who\nwere known as organizers. Efforts of cooption seem to have intensified since\nthe end of 2019, and although there have been local variations, informants\nacross the region painted the same picture of active government interference. A\nhigher official in the federal\ngovernment also confirmed this, saying that a Qeerroo leader approached him\nduring a meeting in Adama and claimed that he was the real Qeerroo leader,\nwhile discrediting other leaders as fake ones. In some cases, local\nadministrators have actively disparaged the existing local Qeerroo groups and\neven created new groups loyal to the government, exacerbating the internal\ndivisions. One informant\nexpressed this as follows: '], ['Abiy is smart. He has background from the intelligence service, and he knows how to play people, how to divide, how to create suspicion, and how to set people up against each other… he gave the main Qeerroo leaders jobs, positions, property, and land. In other words, the Qeerroo leaders are now in the pocket of the government. '], ['Corruption\nand cooption have inevitably exacerbated internal divisions and fragmentation\nwithin the Qeerroo movement. A number of informants confirmed this, some saying\nthat there currently are “so many types of Qeerroo’s everywhere in our\nlocalities.” The main distinction can be drawn between the\n“bitama” (traitors) – those with ties to the authorities – and the “real”\nQeerroo, those opposing them. Informants in Ambo argued that Qeerroo leaders\nwho now are allies with the local authorities “never were real Qeerroo leaders,\nbut people who were spying on the real Qeerroo while in prison.” Some even claimed\nthat the “real Qeerroo” is being reorganized underground. Whether this is the\ncase is difficult to ascertain. In Ambo, the increased presence of the Oromo\nLiberation Army (OLA) in its surroundings has furthered the fragmentation of\nthe Qeerroo. In addition to the Qeerroo aligned with the authorities and those\nopposed to it, a third and more militant group has emerged – said to be\naffiliated with the OLA. Representatives from OLA has increasingly entered Ambo\ntown, encouraging the youth to take up arms and join the OLA. Abiy Ahmed’s\ngovernment has, in response to this, resorted to imprisonment of thousands of\nOromo youth. '], ['Cooption, coercion and divide-and-rule\ntactics have always been a fallback position when central authority in Ethiopia\nhas been threatened, and it seems clear that Abiy Ahmed is resorting to this as\nwell – making use of the EPRDF playbook. It is, however, unclear to what degree\nthis actually has weakened the movement. Jawar Mohammed himself claims that the\ngovernment has failed to effectively infiltrate the movement and that it\nremains largely intact. Acknowledging that some Qeerroo leaders were engaged in unlawful activities,\namong others extorting business communities – out of desperation of having no\nincome – he advised them to take\nposition within the government structure. He claimed, however that these\nQeerroo leaders still remain loyal to the opposition (personal communication).'], ['One could ask whether a\nformalization of the Qeerroo with the establishment of a formal, structured\norganization would have thwarted outside interference. Jawar Mohammed remains\nopposed to this, fearing it would make the movement even more susceptible to\ngovernment intrusion (personal communication). Informants agreed that there are\nlimitations to what Jawar Mohammed could do to address the increased co-option\nof the Qeerroo, and one informant said that “Jawar has become a politician, he\ncan’t talk like he could before, he has to be careful.” In any case, this has\ncreated a great deal of frustration among the Oromo youth, as expressed by one\ninformant: “I used to think that all\nthe officials and cadres were corrupted, and I hoped that when the activists\ntook power, things would become different. But what I see now is the same thing\n– the activists are just as corrupt as the officials.” '], ['Regardless\nof what has been said so far, there is little doubt that the Qeerroo has been\nand continue to be a political force, with significant potential. The vast\nmajority of the Oromo youth supports the opposition – the Oromo Federalist\nCongress (OFC) and, in particular, Jawar Mohammed – something evidenced by the\nyouth’s massive turnout during OFC’s rallies, where also local Qeerroo groups\nwere the ones organizing the arrangements across the region. Even if Jawar\nMohammed, since running for office, has become more restrained in his\ncommunication with the Oromo youth through social media, there is little doubt\nthat they remain loyal to him, and that they immediately would respond to his\ninstructions. It is also plausible that the coopted Qeerroo leaders’ support\nfor the ruling party is tactical, and that they easily could shift side.\nShifting alliances has been a hallmark for Ethiopian politics for centuries, and René Lefort’s reference to the Abyssinian proverb “the king who reigns is my king” has similar relevance for\nthe Oromo context.'], ['While\nthe Qeerroo’s decentered and informal character has been a political force, it\nposes, at the same time, certain challenges. First of all, it is a movement\nthat is difficult to control. One informant pointed to the dire socio-economic\nsituation among Oromo youth, arguing that “when they live with little hope, and\nwhen they think of past injustices, they can be difficult to control.” Another\nchallenge of its decentered character is how it has become open for government\ninterference and vulnerable to internal divisions. Lack of coherent horizontal\nstructures and defined leadership created at the outset limitations for the\nmovement, which seems to be exacerbated by the cooption of local leaders. Oromo\nyouth across the region lamented these developments, feeling dispirited and\n“left alone.” Frustrated about their own and the broader political situation,\nthe general sentiment was the lack of any meaningful directions. '], ['This is, however, not to say that the Qeerroo has outplayed its political role. It still represents an enormous political power. There is, at the same time, a great deal of uncertainty about what role the Qeerroo might play. Much of this will obviously depend on immediate political developments in general, and even more so, on the kind of directions the Oromo political leadership, particularly Jawar Mohammed, will provide the movement. What is certain, though, is that the Oromo youth – and Ethiopian youth more broadly – represents a significant political force ready to be mobilized. With an estimated 59 percent of the population under 25 and dire socio-economic prospects – now being exacerbated by long-term impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic – the future is largely to be defined by them. AS'], ['______________________________________//________________________________'], ['Terje Østebø\xa0is\xa0Associate\nProfessor in the Department of Religion and the Center for African Studies,\nUniversity of Florida.His\nmain areas of research are Islam in Africa, particularly in Ethiopia and in the\nHorn of Africa, and he has extensive field-work and research experience from\nEthiopia.He can\nbe reached at\xa0ostebo@ufl.edu'], ['Muhammad Jemal contributed to this article. He is an Assistant Professor at the Medda Wellabu University in Robe, and can be reached at abuahmedmjky@gmail.com']]}, {'Date': 'May 15, 2020', 'Header': 'Analysis: COVID-19, Desert Locust: The twin threats to Ethiopia’s agriculture, rural livelihoods', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], [''], ['Kassahun K. Suleman, @DrKassahun &'], ['Mulugeta F. Dinbabo'], ['Addis Abeba, May 15/2020 – Ethiopia, the second most populous country in Africa with an estimated population of 109.2 Million in 2018 – is regarded as an agriculture-based economy. The agricultural sector plays a critical role in the national economy, employing two-thirds of the country’s workforce, ensuring food security, and generating revenue and foreign exchange. Smallholder farmers, who practice rain-fed mixed farming by employing traditional technology, adopting a low-input and low-output production system,\xa0account for 95% of the sector’s production whereas commercial farms account for the balance.\xa0'], ['Despite its importance to the economy, the\nagricultural sector is faced with the multiple challenges of supporting rural\nlivelihoods and reducing farmer’s vulnerability to shocks, while contributing\nnational economic objectives. Land fragmentation, fragile natural resource\nbase, climatic uncertainty, weak market linkages, and inadequate use of\nimproved seeds, fertilizers and pesticides, and institutional constraints such\nas land tenure system have been the principal factors affecting growth in the sector.'], ['Agriculture,\nincome diversification, and pastoralism have been the dominant livelihood strategies in the rural parts of Ethiopia. These activities\nsupport some of the most vulnerable people groups in the country which include\nwomen, youth, and indigenous people. However,\nthe extreme vulnerability of these livelihoods to a wide variety of shocks and\nstresses has left millions of people in crisis. Today,\xa0 the WFP\nreports nearly 8.1 million people require emergency food assistance.'], ['The impacts of Locust invasion and COVID-19 on Ethiopia’s agriculture and rural livelihoods'], ['Ethiopia\nhas now faced twin challenges of curbing the spread of the coronavirus and\ncontrolling the ongoing locust invasion. The combined impacts and implications\nof these crises are being felt in different sectors. '], ['As\nfar as locust invasion is concerned, Ethiopia is in the list of the hard-hit\ncountries in the Horn of Africa, along with Kenya, Somalia, Uganda, and South Sudan.\nThe locust\xa0crisis is posing a\xa0danger\xa0to many smallholder farmers in the South, South Eastern and North-Eastern\npart of the country. A recent joint assessment report by FAO and the Government of Ethiopia reveals that\nthe locust infestation has worsened the food insecurity in Ethiopia with nearly 1 million suffering from hunger and\nmalnutrition.\xa0It was also estimated that 3.8 million Quintals of crops were destroyed due to Locust infestation in more than\n170 districts.'], ['Ethiopia now faces an alarming second wave of desert locusts which will necessitate the continued\napplication of ultra-low-volume pesticides and biopesticides. To this end, the\nprospects of agriculture, forestry, and rural livelihoods do not\nseem encouraging.'], ['COVID-19 is another immediate danger\nto Ethiopia’s agriculture and rural development. In addition to its obvious\nimpacts on health, the pandemic is having devastating effects on the\nlivelihoods of rural men and women. In a recent webinar, Ethiopia’s Job Creation Commission Commissioner\ndisclosed that 1.5 million jobs are threatened due to the coronavirus crisis. The rural informal\neconomic sector with many small and micro businesses that create employment for\nmost of the rural poor have been listed as those in danger of closing due to\nCOVID-19. The coronavirus restrictions are also having a considerable impact on\nlabor mobility within the country. As a result, seasonal\nmigration in search of employment opportunities would no longer\nbe viable livelihood option for many poor people. Research shows that women are highly\nlikely to migrate and also to engage in vulnerable or informal employments such\nas domestic work and small roadside coffee shops. The crisis could, therefore, lead to more job losses\nfor women affecting their standing in the national economy.'], ['Although the manufacturing, textile,\nconstruction, and services are said to be the most affected economic sectors,\nagriculture and rural livelihoods are also equally affected by the crisis. The COVID-19 restrictions on\nmovement or activity, although deemed\nnecessary, have impacted agriculture in many ways. Farmers and\npastoralists have faced challenges of working their land, caring for their\nanimals, or accessing markets. Since this\nis a cropping season in Ethiopia, the restrictions on public transport are also\ndisrupting agricultural inputs marketing and distribution. Access to credit is\nalso a challenge as rural saving and credit associations are no longer\nproviding financial service to their members. In this regard, rural women, who\ncomprise the poorest of the poor, have become more vulnerable to facing\nsignificant barriers to accessing such services.'], ['Despite the government’s claims that\nagriculture must continue even with COVID-19 restrictions on movement, the\nagricultural extension system is also facing difficulties. On the one hand,\nmost extension workers do not have Personal Protective Equipment such as\ngloves, mask, and sanitizer to safeguard themselves and others the coronavirus.\nOn the other hand, they are unable to gather people\nat Farmers Training Centers due to a State of Emergency which was declared in the first week of April 2020.'], ['Overall, it can be argued that the\ncombined impacts of COVID-19 and desert locust invasion has led to a\nconsiderable decline in agricultural production and productivity, worsening the\nfood security situation in Ethiopia. According to the Sate Minster of\nAgriculture of Ethiopia,\nthe combined effects of the fight against COVID-19 and the desert locust swarm\ncould result in a loss of up to 8 percent of agricultural productivity in the country. Similarly, rural livelihoods will\ncontinue to be severely affected by the dual crisis if serious measures are not\ntaken on time.'], ['Moving forward in a time of dual crisis'], ['During\nthis time of dual crisis, a key challenge for Ethiopia is to increase\nagricultural production and productivity and secure livelihoods of the country’s poorest, of whom a majority depend on\nagriculture.\xa0'], ['Saving lives should be an absolute priority. In this\nregard, providing humanitarian support to the most vulnerable people is\ncrucial. This can be done by adapting existing social protection systems such\nas the Rural Productive Safety Net Program. '], ['Although evidence is lacking, it is\nexpected that the COVID-19 and locust crisis will have a disproportionately\nnegative impact on the economic wellbeing of women. Interventions should\nprioritize building the resilience and livelihoods of women as well as other\nmost at-risk such as disabled people, children, elderly and indigenous people. '], ['Since planting season is around the corner, availing quality\xa0seeds\xa0and other agricultural inputs for smallholder farmers is imperative. This can be done by supporting community seed banks and seed suppliers in the country.'], ['Health\nand agricultural extension workers play a crucial role in the national response\nto both crises. In order to have smoothly functioning extension systems, there\nis a need to build the capacity of these groups and strengthen\ncommunity-based surveillance and early warning and preparedness systems at the\nlocal level.'], ['Adopting\na comprehensive\xa0multisectoral approach is needed to minimize the future\nimpacts of COVID-19 and locust invasion on rural livelihoods and agriculture.\nThis approach is crucial for setting priorities, mapping resources, and\ncoordinating efforts. '], ['Multidisciplinary research on the implications and consequences of COVID-19 and locust infestation on Ethiopia’s key economic sectors is of paramount importance. The recommendations from such research could feed into the development of policy measures that are required to support formal and informal rural enterprises and stimulating the economy. AS'], ['___________________________________________//_________________________________'], ['Editor’s note: '], ['Lead Author:\xa0Kassahun K. Suleman (PhD) is an Independent Development Consultant based in Addis Abeba, Ethiopia. he can be reached at: kassahun22@gmail.com'], ['Mulugeta F. Dinbabo is a Professor at the University of the Western Cape in South Africa. He is the Chief Editor of the African Human Mobility Review (AHMR) Journal.']]}, {'Date': 'May 13, 2020', 'Header': 'Profile: “At home, I’m the only deaf person. When I’m here I can communicate.” Teki: pioneering dignity and livelihood for the deaf', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], [''], ['Etenesh Abera @EteneshAb '], ['Addis Abeba, May 13/2020 – Zenit Yahyah, 16, is currently one of the staff members of Teki, “a social and environmental enterprise developed for and by the deaf community.” It’s an enterprise which prides itself for creating a “sustainable employment to empower deaf women while building a plastic bag free Ethiopia.” '], ['And guess what?… Teki says, “It works.” '], ['It is because it really does work that a young teenage like Zenit,\nwho could have otherwise spent her lifetime trying to find a place to fit in, has\nbecome one of its members. '], ['“Because of my deafness, I couldn’t call or ask people of Teki’s address after I read about them on Facebook. I communicated with my deaf friends about what kind of incredible things they were doing. That forced me to use Google Maps.’’ Zenit told Addis Standard. ‘’I feared they (Teki) may reject me while applying, but they accepted me immediately. I was so grateful.’’\xa0 Joining Teki was not just a mere opportunity to find a job, it was where she self-esteem and sense of belongingness. “I want to continue my education and wish for Teki to expand and have more deaf staff members.’’\xa0'], ['Haymanot Abebe, 32, is another deaf staff member of the Teki family. She told Addis Standard how lonely she felt when she was at her former workplace. “After I joined Teki everything changed for me. I built my self-confidence, communicated and got paid better. We are not just colleagues, we are a family,’’ Haymanot says. According to her, Teki made them feel proud of themselves and feel capable of doing anything.'], ['“At home, I’m the only deaf person. When I’m here I can communicate.”'], ['When the dreams of a formerly\norphaned woman come true '], ['Coming from an orphanage, deaf and a mother of two, Mimi Leggese is one of the co-managers of Teki social enterprise. Mimi says her wishes since childhood were to help others, especially those with hearing impairment because in Ethiopia living as a deaf is very difficult. '], ['“When I was pregnant with my first child I started to make crochet bags and hats. After a while I taught some of my friends to do it as a business model which wasn’t successful,” Mimi told Addis Standard. \xa0After the failed crochet business she was thinking of establishing a sustainable business idea. That was when she met Clement, a Swiss entrepreneur who lived around Alpha Special School for the Deaf  and wanted to help the deaf community. Clement took the initiative with his friend Mussei to take Mimi’s wish one step further and turned it into a social enterprise which helps the deaf while taking care of the environment. ‘’At the time we started working on Teki we were only three individuals including myself. Currently we have 26 employees, 18 of them are deaf,” Mimi said. Now, she wants to expand Teki into “a large social enterprise focusing on deaf women’s empowerment and other marginalized communities.’’ '], ['Success through perseverance '], ['The\njourney is not an easy one, nor did Mimi expected it to be. But Teki’s resilient\nbusiness model means they have now “produced more than one million paper bags.\nBecause we produce strong paper bags we seriously believe that we contribute a\nlot to the environment by avoiding plastic bags’’ Mimi says. '], ['Creating\na positive impact for and about deaf people is probably what cannot be quantified\nby numbers. Teki’s motto reads ‘we make\npaper bags, with social and environmental impact’ and its family live by\nits motto. Almost 90 per cent of Teki’s staff are women, and 70 per cent\xa0of\nthem are deaf. In 2019, Teki was awarded ‘Pioneer of the year 2019’’ award by\nthe American Chamber of Commerce at a ceremony held in Addis Abeba last\nDecember. '], ['“When we started this business we had three customers, but now we have more than 50 customers who make use of our paper bags.” At times, Teki’s customers are diplomatic institutions that want to distribute their products to businesses. The Embassy of Switzerland in Addis Abeba is one such example. “With the help of the Swedish Embassy we distributed a lot of bags for women who own small businesses.” \xa0'], ['Challenges\xa0ahead '], ['As a pioneer\nin the business model, Teki faces challenges from the unique ones to the common\nones. \xa0This starts from the place they\nmanufacture the paper bags at. ‘’As you see, our office and manufacturing place\nis very small,” Mimi said. They were in discussions with the Addis Abeba city\nAdministration to get land to expand their production “but we haven’t gotten an\nanswer yet. We hope we will get a positive answer soon.’’'], ['\xa0The issues of pricing of the paper bags and peoples’\nperception that they are expensive in comparison to plastic bags is another\nchallenge. “It shouldn’t be compared in the first place. ‘Plastic bags are\nmanufactured and imported easily and the impact of plastic bags on the\nenvironment is devastating; this should be understood.” \xa0'], ['Each paper bag at Teki is handmade and environmentally friendly. “We also oblige with the law and pay Value Added Tax (VAT), which Teki should have been exempted from because above 60 per cent its workforce are persons with disabilities,” Mimi believes. '], ['During\nAddis Standard’s visit of the\nenterprise back in March, they had already stopped manufacturing printed paper\nbags for companies as a result of a machine breakdown to print company logos\nand names on. To import new machines, Teki were waiting for a foreign currency approval\nfrom banks. ‘’Currently we aren’t printing anything on the paper bags, some of\nour customers buy these paper bags that do not bear their logos so as not to go\nback to plastic bags, for which we are very grateful,” Mimi says, but not all\nare interested unless the bags carry company names and logos. '], ['Now, like most businesses in Ethiopia, Teki is grappling with the effects of COVID-19; their staff members are no longer coming to the small office unless to distribute what is in the stock and the machine is not yet fixed. But that is not the only challenge Teki is bracing to overcome. Initially, they used 100 per cent local inputs for their products, but after a while they began struggling with the quality of local supplies and have resorted to import materials from abroad. That too is hard to sustain as Ethiopia braces for severe economic impact due to the Coronavirus. '], ['But,\nfor Teki family, no challenge is permanent. AS \xa0']]}, {'Date': 'May 8, 2020', 'Header': 'News: Clean Technology Fund extends $10 m concessional loan to  Ethiopia’s energy mix, ADB welcomes the move', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba, 08 May/2020 – The African Development Bank has welcomed a decision by the Trust Fund Committee of the Clean Technology Fund (CTF), one of two funds within the Climate Investment Funds\xa0(CIF), to extend a $10 million concessional senior loan for development of the 50 MW Tulu Moye Geothermal Power Plant project in Ethiopia.  '], ['The CTF approved the loan on 20 April 2020 for the project, which is seen  as a critical step to the East African country’s drive to harness  sustainable and resilient energy resources to support its economy and  livelihoods. With this investment, CTF becomes the first progressive geothermal Independent Power Producer (IPP) in Ethiopia.'], ['“We  welcome the participation of CTF in this project. This concessional  resource will be instrumental in helping the country to diversify its energy mix by facilitating the deployment of renewable energy  technologies while supporting Ethiopia in meeting the targets under its  National Electrification Plan 2.0,” said Anthony Nyong, Director of Climate Change and Green Growth at the Bank.'], ['The\n project entails the design, construction, commissioning and operation \nof a 50 MW geothermal power plant under a Build, Own, Operate and \nTransfer (BOOT) scheme, and marks the first phase of the Ethiopian \ngovernment’s plan to build \xa0cumulative generation capacity of 150 MW by \n2024. '], ['The project will include a sub-station and an 11 km transmission line.'], ['Antony\n Karembu, Principal Investment Officer and Renewable Energy Specialist \nat the African Development Bank noted that as the first progressive \ngeothermal Independent Power Producer in Ethiopia, CTF will leverage \nclimate finance options in mobilizing private sector operators for the \nproject.'], ['The project is expected to curb greenhouse gas emissions by over 10 million tonnes \xa0CO2 equivalent over its lifetime, and will create around 600 jobs, Karembu said. '], ['CTF\n will catalyze the deployment of renewable energy technologies in \nEthiopia and will underpin future investments into the sector as \nfirst-mover risks are reduced and compliance requirements are better \nunderstood to all market participants, Leandro Azevedo, Principal \nClimate Finance Officer and CIF coordinator at the African Development \nBank, stated.'], ['The CTF funds will be drawn from the Dedicated Private Sector Program III  designed to provide risk-appropriate financing for high-impact,  large-scale private sector projects in clean technologies. AS/Dispatch ']]}, {'Date': 'April 23, 2020', 'Header': 'News: First foreign owned leasing company in Ethiopia receives 44 tractors', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba, April 24/ 2020 –\xa0EthioLease, the first foreign-owned leasing company, received 44 tractors as part of a collaborative Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) the company signed in February 2020 with the Ministry of Agriculture(MOA) and the Agricultural Transformation Agency (ATA). The agriculture equipment will help ATA farmers’ mechanization centers which provide services to clusters of smallholder farmers who cannot afford or do not wish to buy equipment. These tractors are part of the first batch of equipment, in addition to the 13 tractors already handed over to lessees and are a continuation of the company’s commitment to the country’s agricultural mechanization transformation endeavor.'], ['The collaborative agreement has the potential to reach over 60 centers in the next three years with EthioLease  providing over 150 million dollars’ worth of agriculture equipment.Speaking on the  latest delivery of equipment, EthioLease Board Chairman Girma Wake said:  “the arrival of these additional tractors will contribute to utilizing the country’s immense potential for agriculture mechanization through leased equipment.” He added, “This kind of support will maximize the efficiency of labor and enhance the farmers productivity.” '], ['EthioLease is a subsidiary of Africa Asset Finance Company Inc. (AAFC). The company began operations in August after receiving a license from the National Bank of Ethiopia. It was formed to address the equipment and forex shortages in Ethiopia by providing capital goods financing and a wide range of leasing services for multiple sectors such as agriculture, healthcare, energy, food processing (coffee processing), and manufacturing, among other verticals. '], ['Commenting on the significance of leasing services for Ethiopia’s agriculture sector in particular, EthioLease CEO Girum Tsegaye noted that “financial services are a critical enabler for sustainable economic growth which will increase productivity among farmers to ensure poverty reduction and food security as well as significant financial gains.”EthioLease buys and imports equipment and oversees its maintenance and proper use throughout the lease period. Typically, the lessee will have an option to buy the equipment from the company at the end of the lease period.'], ['Since its launch, EthioLease has provided leasing services to address equipment shortages in the agriculture, healthcare, energy, and food processing sectors, including some in manufacturing. To date, EthioLease has signed leasing agreements with more than 60 customers. AS/Dispatch ']]}]
[{'Date': 'April 15, 2020', 'Header': 'Analysis: Left in the Shadows: Child domestic labor amidst #COVID19', 'news_paragraphs': [['Ayele\xa0Woubshet @ayelewoubshet '], ['Addis Abeba, April 15/2020 – For most of us living in Addis Abeba, it is neither uncommon nor surprising to see children from rural areas working as domestic laborers. We see it in our family gatherings, our friends’ homes or even use such labor in our own households. We are accustomed to hearing the justifications for this practice, the hardship these children face in rural areas and the supposed benefits they obtain when they move to the capital. However, we are also all too familiar with the working conditions of these children and can estimate its impact on their educational and personal development.'], ['This is especially the case in times like these, where efforts to mitigate the spread of the novel coronavirus is expected to have a detrimental effect on the rights and welfare of domestic workers. With the International Labor Organization, the International Domestic Workers Federation, Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International all designating domestic workers as being particularly vulnerable during this crisis, one would be remiss to overlook the level of employment insecurity, exploitation and abuse that domestic workers will be facing in the coming months.'], ['Unfortunately, efforts to assess the economic impact of this pandemic have consistently overlooked this vulnerable section of our society and have instead opted for assessing its detrimental impact on those that are employed in the country’s formal employment sectors[. However, given the effects of this pandemic on the income of employers, the limitation of their movements and the additional cooking and cleaning demands that such social distancing measures will entail, it is expected that domestic workers will be working in what some are calling a dangerous, insecure and stressful work environment.\xa0 '], ['This risk of exploitation is further amplified for child domestic workers, as the separation from their parents, the closure of schools and the resulting expectation to do more household work will have a detrimental effect on their social, mental and personal development. '], ['As such, in light of the increased vulnerability of children during this crisis and the continued exclusion of domestic workers from the country’s Covid-19 discourse, this article seeks to reflect upon the entrenched social practice of employing child domestic workers in Addis Abeba.\xa0 '], ['The Effects of Child Domestic Labor '], ['Although one would be hard-pressed to find figures that accurately describe the magnitude and working conditions of child domestic labor in Addis Abeba, the negative impacts of this practice have been repeatedly acknowledged by both national and international institutions. For example, in its National Children’s Policy, National Employment Policy & Strategy[ and its National Human Rights Action Plan the Ethiopian government has consistently characterized this practice as being exploitative and severely detrimental to the child’s overall development.'], ['Similarly, international human rights institutions like the International Labor Organization, the African Commission on Human and Peoples’ Rights and the African Committee of Experts on the Rights and Welfare of the Child have repeatedly identified the detrimental effects of this practice and have continued to call on the Ethiopian government to effectively prosecute those that perpetuate child domestic labor in the country.'], ['However, very little has been done by the Ethiopian government to combat this entrenched social practice. Whilst some political pundits and government appointees attribute this to the absence of child labor laws in the country’s legal system, it is important to address this assumption by analyzing those national and international legal instruments that already regulate child domestic labor in Ethiopia.'], ['Child Domestic Labor & Ethiopia’s Labor Code '], ['“The lives of Ethiopia’s domestic workers largely depend on their employers’ sense of fairness.”\xa0In a recent interview, a former federal prosecutor cited the legal gaps found in Ethiopia’s Labor Code as the main reason why employers feel a sense of impunity when employing and exploiting child domestic workers[. '], ['This commonly held view is not without its merits, as it is based on an assessment of Ethiopia’s legislative track-record over the last 27-years. Whether one looks at the Labor Proclamations of 1993, 2003 or 2019, these important pillars of the Labor Code have repeatedly and unequivocally refrained from regulating what they define to be “contracts of personal service.” (See Labor Proclamation No. 42/1993 Art 3(2)(d); Labor Proclamation No.  377/2003 Art 3(2)(d); Labor Proclamation No. 1156/2019 Art 3(2)(d) ).'], ['It is because of this legal vacuum that pundits and legal commentators have continued to criticize the Ethiopian government for maintaining this informal and de-regulated employment sector. Furthermore, given that these domestic workers cannot rely on those sections of the Labor Code that regulate the working age, working hours and working conditions in the country, it is a commonly held belief that workers in this informal sector, regardless of their age, are unable to enforce their fundamental rights. '], ['However, such an assessment fails to provide a holistic picture of Ethiopia’s legal framework, as it overlooks those national and international human rights instruments that can overcome the shortcomings of Ethiopia’s Labor Code. '], ['The Legality of Child Domestic Labor '], ['For example, in accordance with the supreme law of the country, the Ethiopian government has an immediate obligation to protect those fundamental rights that are enshrined in Article 36 of the Ethiopian Constitution. In fact, given the wide scope of this article, the Constitution goes a long way in safeguarding children from exploitative work that may be detrimental to their best interest, education or overall well-being. Similarly, as international instruments that directly inform Ethiopia’s legal system, both the African Charter on the Rights and Welfare of the Child (ACRWC ) [Art 5(2); Art 21(1)] and the United Nation’s Convention on the Rights of the Child (UNCRC ) [Art 19(1); Art 27(2); Art 32(1); Art 36] have similar articles that protect children from exploitative employment practices that are detrimental to their normal growth and overall development. But as Dr. Kibri Hailu, Director at the Ministry of Women, Children and Youth Affairs admitted “We are not working seriously on child labor (particularly) on domestic workers.”'], ['Another legal avenue that is available for victims of child domestic labor in Ethiopia is a commonly overlooked proclamation called the Prevention and Suppression of Trafficking in Persons and Smuggling of Migrants Proclamation. As a law that came into effect in 2015, this important proclamation is relevant to the issue of child domestic labor because it seeks to protect those fundamental rights that have been enshrined in Ethiopia’s Constitution and those international human rights instruments that have been ratified by the country.'], ['In\nfact, given the regularity in which child domestic workers migrate from the\nrural areas of the country, this proclamation is instrumental in protecting\nchildren from those that wish to capitalize on their economic vulnerability by\npromising to provide them a decent education or better access to economic\nopportunities. '], ['To that end, this proclamation has effectively criminalized those acts in which a person uses coercion, deception, promises or the vulnerability of another person in order to recruit, transport or receive a child for the purposes of exploitation. Furthermore, given that this proclamation also bars individuals from either giving or receiving any benefits for the purposes of obtaining a parent’s consent, one could argue that this important piece of legislation directly regulates the type of child domestic labor that we observe in the capital city. '], ['Whether it is the promise of obtaining a better education or the material benefits that are given to the parents of child domestic workers, we are accustomed to hearing how these children migrate to Addis Abeba. We know how the consent of both the children and their parents is obtained. But most of all, we know the reality they face when they arrive in the capital; the long working hours and dire working conditions that directly hinders their fundamental right to personal, educational and social development. '], ['The Human Rights Perspective '], ['It is therefore erroneous to suggest that the continuing exploitation of child domestic workers in Ethiopia is solely the result of those legal gaps that the Ethiopian Labor Code has left unaddressed.\xa0 Although the Labor Code should be expeditiously amended in order to regulate the working conditions within this informal sector, the rights of child domestic workers in particular could still be justifiable in Ethiopia’s legal system if one relies on those national and international human rights instruments that the Ethiopian government is obligated to enforce. Whether it is the country’s Constitution, the UNCRC, the ACRWC or the Prevention and Suppression of Trafficking in Persons and Smuggling of Migrants Proclamation, each of these legal instruments provide an avenue in which child domestic workers could potentially enforce their fundamental rights. '], ['However, by only framing child domestic work as an immoral labor issue, critics have failed to engage with those human rights instruments that could potentially provide redress to victims of this highly exploitative practice. Given that this narrow conceptualization has also hindered key governmental institutions like the Ministry of Women, Children and Youth Affairs and the Office of the Attorney General from properly defining this issue and enforcing the relevant articles of the law, re-framing this entrenched social practice as a human rights violation could be the difference between redress for the victims and impunity for the offenders. AS\xa0 '], ['Editor’s Note: '], ['Ayele\xa0Woubshet is\xa0a\xa0graduate\xa0of\xa0Oxford\xa0Brookes\xa0University’s\xa0Schoolof\xa0Law\xa0and\xa0is\xa0currently\xa0working\xa0as\xa0a\xa0junior\xa0researcher\xa0at\xa0theInstitute\xa0for\xa0Strategic\xa0Affairs\xa0(ISA).']]}, {'Date': 'April 13, 2020', 'Header': 'News Alert: Desert Locusts drive one million Ethiopians to food insecurity', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba, April 13/2020 – About one million individuals in Ethiopia have been affected by the Desert Locust invasion and require emergency food assistance, a newly released joint assessment on the Impact of Desert Locusts on Food Security and Livelihoods in Ethiopia said. Of these, about 390 000 are in Somali, 360 000 in Oromia and Dire Dawa city (combined), 100 000 in Afar, 72 000 in Amhara, 43 000 in Tigray and 13  000 in Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples (SNNP) regions. '], ['The Assessment was conducted by the Government of Ethiopia, Food and  Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), other United  Nations agencies and Non-Governmental Organizations that are part of the  Agriculture Taskforce, the Integrated Food Security Phase  Classification (IPC) Technical Working Group and the Food Cluster.'], ['The objective of the Assessment was to establish the impacts of the \nDesert locusts on livelihoods and food security of the population in the\n most-affected zones and Woredas (districts).'], ['Fatouma Seid, the FAO Representative in Ethiopia said “as we strive to control the Desert Locusts, it is critical to protect the  livelihoods of the affected population especially now that the situation  is compounded by the COVID-19 crisis”. She added that as soon as  conditions permit, FAO will continue to assist farmers and pastoralists with agricultural inputs and cash transfers.'], ['Crop and pasture damage, limited cereal stock'], ['According to the Assessment findings, Desert Locusts damaged about \n200 000 hectares of cropland and caused a cereal loss of over 356 000 \nMT. Sorghum was the most affected cereal with 114 000 hectares damaged, \nfollowed by maize at 41 000 hectares and wheat at 36 000 hectares.\xa0 \nOromia region was worst affected with total cereal loss of 123 000 MT, \nfollowed by the Somali region at 100 000 MT while the Tigray region \nrecorded 84 000 MT cereal loss. The majority of the assessed households \neither had no or very limited cereal food stock barely a month after \ncompleting Meher (September – February) crop harvest.'], ['Up to 1.3 million hectares of pasture and browse were affected. \nCommunities estimated 61 percent reduction in the pasture in the Somali \nregion, 59 percent in Afar, 35 percent in Dire Dawa and SNNPR, 31 \npercent in Oromia.\xa0'], ['Increased cereal prices against stagnant and falling livestock prices '], ['The Assessment found that cereal prices had increased soon after \nharvest (in February 2020) by about 50 percent from 2019 yet about 25 \npercent of households were relying on markets for food. Livestock prices\n were stagnant. The sale of livestock was likely eroding the resilience \nof livestock keepers particularly in Afar, Somali and Oromia regions \nwhere the trend was observed.'], ['Food consumption and dietary diversity deteriorates '], ['The proportion of households reporting poor food consumption \ndeteriorated from 37 percent in August 2019 to 41 percent in February \n2020. Afar region recorded the highest proportion of households with \npoor consumption, at 91 percent in February 2020 compared to 58 percent \nin August 2019.\xa0 In the Oromia region, the proportion of households \nreporting poor food consumption increased from 38 percent in August 2019\n to 50 percent in February 2020.'], ['In the seven days prior to the assessment, about two thirds of the \nhouseholds reported consuming less than three food groups compared to \nseven as recommended by nutrition experts. This means the nutrition for \nthe household members is compromised.\xa0 Up to 97 percent of households in\n the Afar and 74 percent in both Somali and Oromia consumed three or \nfewer food groups.'], ['Recommendations '], ['In addition to responding to the immediate food needs of the affected  population, the Report recommends strengthening national Desert Locust  Early Warning, information sharing mechanisms, and control capacities.  It calls for sustainable humanitarian assistance to the existing  caseload in the context of the prevailing COVID-19 crisis. Furthermore,  it calls for conducting a comprehensive food security and Nutrition  Survey in June 2020, to produce IPC analysis on the impact of Desert  Locusts, seasonal food insecurity and impact of COVID-19.Heavy rainfall  creates favorable breeding conditions in the Somali region. FAO Dispatch/AS.']]}, {'Date': 'April 9, 2020', 'Header': '\ufeffIn-depth Analysis: What should be Africa’s strategy to counter #Covid19? A strategy for containment', 'news_paragraphs': [['Mehari Taddele Maru (@DrMehari)\xa0 '], ['Super sense of urgency: clarity, clarity and clarity of strategy'], ['Addis Abeba, April 09/2020 –  The current Covid-19 pandemic, like most of its kind, poses two closely interlinked challenges. They can be summarized as the demands for urgent actions needed to contain the outbreak; and the requirement to work on long-term strategic issues including investments directed towards social and economic recovery, and peace and security. The last part— peace and security that is intrinsically tangled with governance, the nature and the role of state, the popular and performance legitimacy and capability required by governments, is a subject deserving detailed analysis with urgency and perhaps in another piece.'], ['The urgent response: marshaling all resources'], ['The immediate response to a pandemic is aimed at saving lives. The African Union (AU) Bureau of Assembly rightly underscores that the Covid-19 situation ‘could explode in an even more catastrophic way than has been seen [in pandemics] thus far in Africa’. The aim of urgent measures to contain it should be the prevention of local transmission leading to a lower infection and death rate; reduced levels of illness and hospitalization; maintenance of social stability; and mitigation of the adverse impact of the pandemic on the livelihoods of the poor.'], ['In such a life-and-death issue the authorities’\nresponse cannot be delayed, even though the climate of urgency deflects the\nleadership’s attention, and claims resources that otherwise would be directed\nto long-term strategic action. This is the first set of problem.'], ['Covid-19 is especially widespread and severe. Families are its first victims; but lockdowns and travel bans seem likely to destroy national economies and that economic impact is a hammer-blow that could lose Africa all the economic advances it has made of late.\xa0 The third serious impact is its disastrous effect on the livelihood of families and communities and the drain on community assets and family savings that it represents. Fourth is the strain on the states’ future capacity for delivery. All the advances toward the social goals of the Sustainable/Millennium Development Goals (S/MDGs) will also be wiped out. This is especially true of the health sector which, failing continuous huge investments (which require a resilient economy), may be irreparably damaged. During states of emergency and societal lockdowns, law enforcement agencies and army resources will also be overstretched, while treasuries will lack replenishment in the absence of normal revenue generation. What is more, aggressive prevention in poor governance contexts works only with the exercise of state control of means of violence and administrative powers and may require postponement of elections that are the source of legitimacy to govern. Since the armed forces have a superior capacity for rapid deployment, African states will need to rely on their military assets in the response to the Covid-19 pandemic. Countries may declare state of emergency, border closures, travel bans, lockdowns and curfews. It may require nationalizing some resources either to utilize them for the fight against Covid-19, or to save strategic companies from total collapse in the absence of revenues.  Given the history of African armed forces\xa0and the abuses by predatory politics, if\xa0and when\xa0state of emergency is declared and armed forces\xa0are\xa0\xa0deployed, mechanisms\xa0for deliberative governance and accountability\xa0must be set up to ensure strict oversight and respect of human rights within the legally permissible derogation. '], ['It is often said that where there is accountability and a free press, famines are rare. Now, similarly, where there is accountability the incidence of Covid-19 could be minimized. The present situation throws a spotlight on the quality of leadership and governance. Already, as a consequence of the pandemic elections are being deferred, hence transitions to legitimate governance stalled. With the economy at a standstill there will be greater demands for improved public service delivery. As always during pandemics and crises, the legitimacy of government and leaders and of the state itself will be tested and possibly would diminish, while if past experience is any guide pandemics also encourage a certain kind of predatory politics. Incumbent office-bearers may use the pandemic as a pretext to extend their term of office – if only by months – while others may use it to wreak havoc by stoking public fears and attributing any failure to respond to the incompetence of the government in place. All these issues form part of the first set of problems involved in immediate action on the outbreak. '], ['Strategic actions'], ['The urgent responses necessary to save lives at the\nsame time undermine strategic actions directed to building resilient economies\nand institutional capabilities. In this context leaders may apply the capacity framework proposed in the AU Common Africa\nPosition (AU-CAP), which remains relevant for responses to Covid-19. The first line of strategic capability is to predict the number of infections using scientific modelling. The\nsecond refers to prevent by carrying\nout early interventions by applying WHO guidelines, including\nsocial distancing, frequent washing and, where possible and necessary, wearing\nmasks. Clearly, not all infections can be prevented but the response needs to\ninvolve tracing, testing, and treating those suspected of carrying the virus.\nThe last, fourth strategic capability is the ability to adapt to new local,\nnational and global realities of life during and after the pandemic. Adaptation\nrequires resilience in employing community assets by way of sharing resources,\nencouraging traditional structures of support, exploiting advantageous\nsocio-cultural traits, fostering the informal economy and seeking social\ninnovation. Ensuring readiness of the food, water, and energy (fuel) stocks is\nan aspect of adaptive capabilities. These strategic interventions require the same, or\nsimilar, efforts and resources as are diverted directly to fight Covid-19.\nTogether they form the second set of problems.'], ['Prevention of virus spread '], ['All countries are vulnerable to the disastrous\nimpact of the pandemic but some more so than others, depending on their\nsocio-economic development, the determination in action shown by their\nleadership, and the propensity and skills of political and social leaders in\nmobilising communities. '], ['Covid-19 will spread through Africa at\na rate varying with geographical connectedness, mobility levels and frequency\nof travel. Shortages of fresh water, gaps between supply and\ndemand for energy, and a widening income gap with associated social unrest may\nincrease the vulnerabilities of communities to religious promptings. The death rate will also depend on disease incidence,\nconsidering co-morbidity and other concurrent factors. In Africa, it is\nthe community level of prevention that is the primary arena of intervention; in\nthis regard the response must be tailored within a particular community\ncontext. '], ['African governments can readily institute prevention measures such as social distancing and frequent hand washing because granted all their limitations, such initiatives demand only extra effort of which all individuals, even the poorest, are capable to some extent. However, Africa has no capacity to conduct tests in sufficient numbers to monitor the total infected population. Testing alone has no impact unless those infected are isolated and – when necessary – treated; moreover, Africa’s capacity to hospitalize all or most victims of the pandemic is all but non-existent. Germany, with a population of 80 million, is conducting more than half a million tests a week while Ethiopia, with a population of more than 100 million, can test fewer than 500 per day. At the time of writing New York, with a population of 20 million, has 4 000 ventilators but needs 30 000 more if it is effectively to hospitalize all its expected Covid-19 patients. Even so it is facing a serious shortage. One can only imagine what will happen in Ethiopia, which has fewer than 400 ventilators. Furthermore, '], ['African states must somehow acquire the necessary\ntesting kits and technology but until they do, the silent progression of\nCovid-19 will continue, with a count of the sick and the dead as the only real\nway of determining the level of infection. '], ['\xa0Hence until Africa mobilizes its resources and those of its potential partners, the only way to fight Covid-19 is by employing aggressive prevention programs. It is almost impossible in crisis situations to meet the both the urgent and the strategic demands, especially when the legitimacy of many governments can be called into question. In light of these challenges, the key to the success of Africa’s fight against the virus is the determination of its leaders, the mobilization of an entire society, and a campaign of mass communication. '], ['Political determination: time, energy and leadership vision '], ['To quote economist Paul Romer, a crisis is a terrible thing to waste. This offers opportunity to exhibit leadership. For the urgent and the strategic actions each to succeed, Covid-19 itself has to be identified as the primary foe. Secularizing the pandemic will prevent further transmission only for a short time but the real deal – rooting out the pandemic by aggressive prevention measures – will hinge on strict implementation of social (perhaps more aptly, physical) distancing, and aggressive tracing and quarantining of those who may be infected. When resources permit, large-scale testing, quick treatment and hospitalization constitute the main preventive measures.'], ['The first and foremost factor for success in\nstopping the spread of the virus is the political determination of leaders\n(i.e: their will to mitigate the pandemic and to allocate adequate time,\nfinance and energy to doing so). Political leadership must be exercised with\ndetermination. Epidemiologically-\xa0 not\nideologically-based solutions are the keys to success.\xa0 It is science, not politics, that will take\nus farthest. '], ['The narrative now flooding the media is\n(justifiably) negative.\xa0 A surge in\ninfections awaits and the scale of the pandemic to be deduced from some models\nis almost too intimidating to contemplate. Mathematical\nmodels are merely instruments to help evaluate and prepare interventions but if\nthey are accurately based on past experience of comparable situations, they are\nthe best estimates available. Too many infections arising too fast, with\nsubstantial death rates, will overwhelm the continent’s capacity for testing\nand medication. Against that background, governments\nneed to prepare for all possible scenarios, including nightmarish ones; in\nAfrica, overreaction and over-preparedness rarely occur and it is preferable to\nover-prepare and ‘waste’ resources than face the possibility of an almost\nunimaginable death toll.'], ['The continent’s political leaders require foresight to grasp what is likely to happen in Africa in relation to this brutal pandemic (learning from the other parts of the world hit by Covid-19 is one way to go about it) and they need an unprecedented sense of urgency. The disease will only reveal itself in numbers of hospital admissions or deaths.\xa0 If the US, Italy and Spain, with relatively high standards of testing and hospitalization systems and generally better health care, can be hit so hard by the pandemic, leaders in Africa, with its more limited health care systems, must employ some seriously imaginative thinking on what their countries may look like over the next few weeks and months. It will be the sense of urgency and resolve shown by the political leadership that will determine its ability and willingness to foresee the looming societal dangers and eventually define the continent’s success in its fight against the virus, by demonstrating how far the damage can be mitigated. Clarity of direction and purpose and mobilization of society can result only from determined and energetic leadership. '], ['Marshaling a whole of society'], ['The fight against the Covid-19 pandemic will not\nsucceed unless the virus is fought tooth and nail by society in its\nentirety.\xa0 Africa lacks the testing kits, technology, drones\nand Artificial Intelligence to trace effectively, but is has pervasive\ncommunity social networks that could be easily mobilized and repurposed for\ntracing Covid-19 infections even in remote areas and difficult geography. '], ['Through very early to make a conclusive judgment and delay by the government to act, UK’s response to the virus seems to show some encouraging results. It has marshaled its national resources including the mobilization close to 4000 intensive-care hospital, in short time, and the re-purposing of some unlikely institutions such as the brilliant engineers Formula One racing teams which used to working against the clock, were hanging around with nothing to do because the races were cancelled. Formula One race engineers are now built ventilators. '], ['As a mechanism for instilling a sense of cooperation, governments need to take an whole of society approach in which state and non-state actors, particularly religious leaders, traditional elders, tribal chiefs and the youth, together with private sector interests, are co-opted into active participation in the battle. Such an approach will ensure community commitment and take into consideration peculiar localized circumstances, proximity to local authorities and the mobilization of local resources and community assets. Mobilized societies, inclusive of religious leaders, traditional elders and community associations, young people, women’s groups and parents, can help reduce the risk of exposure. Many African countries have traditional chiefs and self-help associations; Ethiopia, for example, has close to 500,000 Iddir (traditional neighborhood funeral associations) and Iqub (credit clubs). Traditional elders and religious leaders generally command immense respect from their communities and similarly, political leaders exercise significant influence over their supporters. Professionals (in all sectors although mainly health, media and technology) may also be brought into play to contribute their particular expertise, while the mobilization of resources should focus on local private sector interests, including chambers of commerce. Such a holistic approach will encourage private interests to deploy skills in building, transportation, mask manufacture, food aid and other kinds of assistance. Moreover, adaptation to the new post-Covid-19 economy will require significant lateral and innovative thinking, which can come only from the private sector and the communities themselves. Mobile transfer of money, for example, and door-to-door social support and service, come primarily from the private sector, while community assets help in adaptation to a crisis-mode economy. '], ['Re-purposing and redeploying community assets'], ['The battlegrounds in the war on Covid-19 are at the level of families and communities. Ultimately, aggressive prevention is best implemented locally and even more, at neighborhood and household levels. Lacking artificial intelligence (AI) and other sophisticated technologies for tracing infection, African governments need to re-purpose and deploy the existing early warning systems that were intended to handle famine, floods and locusts. Given sufficient determination on the part of the authorities, existing mechanisms and assets (such as health and agricultural extension programs, safety net schemes, early warning systems, town halls, universities, churches and mosques) can be quickly incorporated into a national program. Safety net systems designed to offer social protection for the needy could be extended to offer essential assistance to the poorest; several African countries already have safety net structures in place for times of drought and flooding, together with social protection systems and microfinancing institutions to support the poor. For example, until recently, Ethiopia had a Productive Safety Net Program that supported more than seven million people in need of social support; furthermore, Ethiopia’s health extension program has 40 000 on its payroll and the agriculture service extension has over 60 000 development agents. Long standing food storage and fuel stock need to be refilled and ready for distribution when needed. '], ['To mitigate the impacts of Covid-19 on the livelihood of those affected by lockdown and social distancing, safety nets, social protection systems and microfinancing institutions all need to be repurposed. The last of these, together with traditional neighborhood associations and religious organizations, could also be used to help alleviate the social and physiological burdens of those affected. Early warning systems developed for drought and flooding could be temporarily adjusted for service in tracing potential infections, as could the functioning Famine Early Warning System that many African countries, Ethiopia included, use as a predictive and responsive mechanism during periods of drought that might lead to famine. In addition, early warning systems such as those of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) could assist in cross-border cooperation and tap into community assets that could help build the resilience of border communities in the implementation of a cross-border response to the spread of the virus.\xa0 Those early warning systems, plus health and agricultural extension programs, could easily be redeployed for use in prevention campaigning and tracing and treating Covid-19 patients. '], ['Quite aside from the notional efficacy of such programs, only harnessing community assets and fostering local solidarity can deliver a suitably rapid means not only of ameliorating the disastrous impact of self-isolation on livelihoods but also of controlling outbreaks of disease through tracing and isolation. '], ['Mass communication programs'], ['Aggressive prevention of Covid-19 relies heavily on mass communication. Provided they are honest and transparent, mass communications constitute the first tool in the battle against such pandemics and the first virtue of a leadership sincerely determined to fight Covid-19 is honesty and transparency in providing information. Clear communication of effective prevention strategies tailored to the realities of local populations can be shared through various platforms, including traditional media (print, mainstream TV and radio) and new methods organized remotely through social media, telegrams, WhatsApp and other virtual platforms. In pandemics of such severity, panic is an ever-present danger and the distribution of ‘fake news’ and counter-factual information can be a major source of public disquiet.'], ['The battle against Covid-19 pandemic in Africa will be fought mainly by Africans but should not be a lonely battle for self-preservation. The G20 group of leading industrial countries has already pointedly noted ‘the serious risks posed to all countries, particularly developing and least developed countries, and notably in Africa and small island states, where health systems and economies may be less able to cope with the challenge, as well as the particular risk faced by refugees and displaced persons. We consider that consolidating Africa’s health defense is a key for the resilience of global health. We will strengthen capacity building and technical assistance, especially to at-risk communities. We stand ready to mobilize development and humanitarian financing.’'], ['Development partners including the UN, EU, the US and China might consider helping Africa in three specific ways. First, since testing is an insurmountable challenge for African countries acting alone, those countries should try to provide testing resources as quickly as possible (given their own domestic demands). Secondly, they should provide finance to resuscitate, re-purpose, and improve the operation of existing African mechanisms, such as national safety nets, early warning systems and microfinance. And lastly, those development partners need to work with the AU, its Regional Economic Communities and member states to help in the eventual economic recovery of Africa, once the present crisis hopefully is only a memory. AS'], ['_________________________________________//____________________________'], ['Editor’s note: Dr. Mehari Taddele Maru is Part-time Professor at European University Institute . He can be reached at: mehari.maru@eui.eu.\n\n']]}, {'Date': 'March 24, 2020', 'Header': 'Opinion: In honor of physicians in the era of #COVID19', 'news_paragraphs': [['Belete A. Desimmie, @adbelete, (MD, PhD), for Addis Standard'], ['Addis Abeba, March 24/2020 – Physicians and other healthcare workers have answered the internal call to action to halt the spread of COVID-19 and are doing what they have been called upon and trained to do – taking care of patients. These brave frontline men and women, as Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed stated in one of his latest address,are battling this invisible modern era enemy. Physicians across the globe have created countless social media groups to discuss what they can and cannot do as well as share their experience and the anticipated challenges about COVID-19. This experience has revealed the enormous potential of a newly budding frontier in medical practice i.e. telemedicine in patient care. Mainstream as well as social media are significantly facilitating systems change in medical information exchange and traditional patient care landscape. '], ['At the beginning of the COVID-19 outbreak,\nphysicians as scientists, but not as fortune tellers, accurately anticipated the\ncurrent situation. Do not get me wrong, there was a lot of self-questioning\namongst them and they were not being alarmists. '], ['It turns out that even the most capable\nnations were not prepared, and their healthcare infrastructures are in complete\nmeltdown because of the speed of COVID-19 spread. Physicians and other health\nworkers are risking their lives; a few of them, unfortunately, succumbed to\nCOVID-19. In the west, we are witnessing that retired physicians offering to\ntemporarily rejoin the workforce risking their lives. Some doctors who have\nbeen away from clinical medicine are also offering to work in the capacity of\nresident physicians who require direct supervision by qualified physicians. I,\na physician-scientist and a virologist who work on HIV immunobiology, am one of\nthem. The inherent understanding is because of our Hippocratic oath but it is\nour time to rise to the unprecedented challenge, support each other, and provide\nguidance during a time of increasing public anxiety and fear.'], ['The number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in Ethiopia is slowly rising. Justifiably, the public as well as the healthcare workers are panicking. For now, the situation in Ethiopia is not bad. In fact, we have to be grateful to our leaders for their efforts and continuous guidance on the COVID-19 emergency responses. I am also amazed by and proud of my Ethiopian colleagues who are constantly sharing evidence-based thoughts on the trends and anticipated challenges of COVID-19 in our setting. Their effort to prepare and constantly update the educational materials to create awareness on preventive precaution measures is uplifting. Kudos to all of them!'], ['While researchers and physicians are\non the frontline and leading by example to stop COVID-19, there is an\nunsettling and far more complacency as well as stubbornness in the general\npublic. Flattening the curve of COVID-19 can only be achieved if we care for\neach other and work in harmony. Yes, there is a collective understanding that\ndespite our own worries, health professionals must get to work. The lack of\npersonal protective equipment has, however, made their workplaces unsafe. Yet, none\nof them that we know off are prioritizing their safety before duty. The newsfeeds\nthat we get from China, Italy, Iran, and other countries are heartbreaking and\nphysicians are self-isolated themselves by abandoning their livelihoods and\nfamilies. '], ['The world faces an immediate crisis. We all must play our parts to overcome this a once-in-a-lifetime pandemic. COVID-19 should be a wakeup call and we should be prepared for new epidemics emergence; a matter not of if but of when. Ethiopia as a country should take drastic measures to improve our healthcare infrastructures and train highly skilled physicians and other healthcare workers. The worrying newsfeeds about the joblessness of newly graduated doctors and the deterioration of our medical education standards is unacceptable. In times like this, even the most developed healthcare systems have been challenged and over stretched. Our government must revisit and understand why the medical education and the health care facilities are not in sync to address the concerns of these young physicians who will always answer to the national calls to save the lives of their people and lead by example in crisis like COVID-19. \xa0'], ['Amid all of these, physicians kept their heads up and continued to abreast us by sharing evidence-based recommendations while tackling the constant flow of misinformation and myths about COVID-19 in real-time. For all these reasons, I would like to take a moment to thank my colleagues in Ethiopia and around the world, especially those physicians on the frontlines. Show your love and respect for physicians and other health professionals who dedicated their lives to fight COVID-19. AS']]}, {'Date': 'March 14, 2020', 'Header': 'News: IOM appeals for US$77.6 m to help more than 1.2 m internally displaced Ethiopians', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba, March 14/2020 – The International Organization for Migration (IOM),  launched an appeal yesterday for USD77.6 million to provide humanitarian  assistance to more than 1.2 million internally displaced persons (IDPs),  returnees, host community members and migrants in Ethiopia.'], ['“The East African [state] faces some of the most complex migration  issues in the world. Social, economic, political and climatic change  factors drive populations to leave their homes both from within and  outside Ethiopia’s borders, IOM said in the appeal document.'], ['Ethiopia continues to receive migrants and refugees, 88,044 between January and October last year, particularly from neighboring Eritrea, South Sudan and Somalia. “While Ethiopia’s displacement landscape shifted significantly in 2019, basic needs remain high.”'], ['IOM said that relocation assistance to refugees was a “vital lifesaving operation” and cautioned that “failure to do so may result in increased humanitarian needs and  protection concerns for refugee and host communities.”'], ['Living conditions for IDPs, returnees and many host communities are dire. Shelter, safe access to water, sanitation, and hygiene (WASH), basic health services, and critical non-food items (NFIs) are urgently needed. “IOM Ethiopia plans to provide support following two principal objectives: saving lives while responding to the humanitarian crisis and supporting the transition and recovery of crisis-affected communities,” said Ester Ruiz de Azua, IOM Ethiopia’s Emergency and Post-Crisis Program Coordinator.'], ['Community-based stabilization, peace-building and reconciliation  efforts are needed to resolve and prevent further conflict-induced  internal displacement.'], ['In response, IOM Ethiopia aims to provide comprehensive data collection through the Displacement Tracking Matrix (DTM), Shelter and Non-food Item (NFI) programs, WASH interventions, site management support, mental health and psychosocial support, refugee transportation, assistance to vulnerable returnees from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and emergency health support in conflict-affected areas, the appeal document highlighted. '], ['“For crisis-affected communities, IOM Ethiopia seeks to continue supporting the government in achieving durable solutions which include voluntary return, local integration, and relocation in various regions of the country.” Peace-building and peace preservation, community stabilization and displacement tracking for recovery and crisis prevention are also a strong focus for this year.'], ['“We call on the donor community to continue providing life-saving support to the people of Ethiopia. This appeal aims to reach 1.2 million people in need. The international community must act in this critical moment — for Ethiopia 2020 and beyond,” said Ruiz de Azua. Dispatch/AS ']]}]
[{'Date': 'February 27, 2020', 'Header': 'Profile: The Silent Fighters: The Volunteers behind Ethiopia’s Democratic Reforms', 'news_paragraphs': [['Abadir M. Ibrahim and Abduletif Kedir Idris '], ['Addis Abeba, February 27/2020 – For almost two years, every Ethiopian and every Ethiopia observer has been overwhelmed by discussion and news about the monumental changes that have been taking place in Ethiopia. Starting from PM Abiy Ahmed’s parliamentary speech in which he admitted that the state was responsible for “terrorizing” its citizens, to the subsequent opening of Ethiopia’s political, media and civil society scenes, and Abiy Ahmed’s winning of the Nobel Peace Prize were events that both deserved and caught much media attention. While these are indeed moments of historic significance, one nuance which seems to have been missing is that these achievements have a reasonably high chance of not translating into long-term progress or can even be easily reversed. The longevity of the reforms will, among other things, depend on ensuring that the gains are consolidated by detailed legal, administrative and regulatory changes to pre-existing authoritarian structures. Thus, the mainstay of the reform effort, the grueling legal and justice system reform work without which these short-term measures are bound to falter and eventually fail, is not only in its early stages but it has not caught the public’s eye or that of the media and social media spheres.'], ['The responsibility to undertake the technical work needed to ensure the success of Ethiopia’s liberal reforms has been vested in a hitherto little-known body known as the Legal and Justice Affairs Advisory Council. But for public consultations regarding new laws that may have attracted some media/public attention, the Advisory Council worked mainly behind the scenes. In this article we will make a case for breaking this streak of relative obscurity as the Advisory Council is not only a unique organization from which other countries going through reform can learn from, but its contributions are about to bring about a transformation in Ethiopia’s legal system the scales of which are second only to the establishment Ethiopia’s “modern” legal system in the 1960s. '], ['To highlight the significance of this work one only needs to point out that the Advisory Council has already completed reform packages and prepared draft laws Ethiopia’s legal framework in relation to civil society; counterterrorism; media; freedom of information; freedom of assembly, demonstration and petition; computer crimes; establishment of the National Electoral Board; electoral, political party registration and electoral code of conduct; administrative procedure; criminal procedure and evidence; prison administration; the regulation of legal practice; the Ethiopian Human Rights Commission; and in addition to submitting a new draft commercial code. If this were not enough, in the coming year the Advisory Council is expected to work on a similar reform initiatives in relation to the establishment of financial services code; the freedom of movement; the Office of the Ombudsperson; the Council of Constitutional Inquiry and House of the Federation; civil registration system; legal education; sustainability of legal reform; and other matters relating to civil law and the human rights infrastructure of Ethiopia.'], ['The Birth of\nthe of the Silent Fighters '], ['The Advisory Council first started off as a group of 13 prominent lawyers who were pulled into a statutory body by the Attorney General of Ethiopia and given the responsibility of providing detailed and technical advice on how the government’s legal and justice system reform can entrench the gains of the political transition. What started as a band of 13 lawyers grew very quickly as these lawyers turned to their colleagues and contacts (most but not all of whom are lawyers) and the Advisory Council now boasts a staff of over 168. What is really interesting is that, for all the complex and sizable legal reform packages that the Advisory Council has produced, it only has eight full time staff. The rest, about one hundred sixty plus of its staff are volunteers. Using voluntarism, the Advisory Council was able to coalesce a group of high-demand (otherwise expensive) professionals who are among the best and most seasoned experts (academics and practitioners) within their respective fields. Despite their demanding schedules, most of the volunteers seem to continue to persist as volunteers because of the widespread realization that the country has a window of opportunity that may flee if not capitalized on. The result is a legal and justice system reform body with a highly capable workforce but without the large bill that comes with such projects.'], ['In addition to\nlow cost for high quality work, the added benefits of the volunteer model\nincluded the possibility of launching the reform work without waiting for\nprolonged budgetary allocation or hiring processes, and the ability of the\nAdvisory Council to jealously defend its independence from powerful\nstakeholders including the government and funding institutions. Independence is\nan important precept based on which the Advisory Council is established as,\naccording to the directive establishing the Council, members are expected to\noperate under the precepts of independence, professionalism, ethics and individual\nconscience. Although the Council does accept funding, not being dependent on\nfunding institutions, or being primarily dependent on the goodwill of Ethiopian\nvolunteers, no doubt helps in making it easier to uphold these precepts. '], ['A Genuine\nTurning Point for Democracy and Human Rights in Ethiopia? '], ['Ethiopia’s successful transition\nto a free and democratic country will not be secure until at least two\ncredible, free, and fair elections have taken place. Thus, even if all of the\nAdvisory Council’s technically-sound legal reforms are enacted, the successful\nimplementation of the legal reform will take a long time and that will prove to\nbe treacherous. However, the establishment of the Advisory Council and the way\nit has been run seem to at least be a strong starting point. This aspect of the\nreform was captured by a recent report by the UN\nSpecial Rapporteur on\nthe right to freedom of opinion and expression which highlighted just how significant\nthe Advisory Council may prove to be in the country’s democratization.'], ['In his report, which is mostly on the state of the\nfreedom of opinion/expression in Ethiopia, and later in some of his social media engagements, UN Special Rapporteur David Kaye\nhighlighted the work of the Advisory Council and, more significantly, bringing\nto light some of the significant strengths of the Advisory Council and its\nworking methods. In addition to specifically noting the voluntarism and\nprofessionalism present within the Advisory Council and commending the products\nof the Council’s work, the Special Rapporteur praised the inclusive and\nparticipatory aspects of the Advisory Council and its work. Regarding\ninclusivity, he applauds the government’s ability to entrust the reform process\nto a group of professionals who constitute the Advisory Council’s thematic\nWorking Groups and who are not beholden to the government or the ruling party.\nDescribing this as an “impressive” and “unusually inclusive process” that\n“should be celebrated” he rightly points out that some of these professionals\nare former members of opposition groups and some are themselves victims of\nhuman rights violations. While this aspect already makes the makeup of the\nAdvisory Council participatory in the diversity of its participants, he also\nspecifically points out the public participatory aspects of the Council’s methodology.\n'], ['After going through an analysis of the current context, the UN\nSpecial\nRapporteur, in the end, holds up the Advisory Council’s methodology as one “that\nshould be a model for democratic processes worldwide”, a “model for the region\nand beyond” and one that “deserves support”. It is certainly a great feat for a\ncountry to get to a point where it is referred to in the UN human rights system\nas a “model for the region and beyond” especially where it is a country that\nhad until just a year ago had attained notoriety for being among “10\nworst jailers of journalists”, the wholesale\nclosure of NGOs, the systematic torture\nof dissidents including religious\nleaders, and the occasional\nwar crimes and crimes\nagainst humanity, to be described as “a model for democratic processes worldwide” is certainly a\nfeat. '], ['What comes Next? '], ['At a time when Ethiopia is faced\nwith both great prospects\nand serious challenges, it is extremely vital that the government is able\nto consolidate and double down on the things it has gotten right. Given the\nincreasing skeptical turn towards various reform initiatives, and voicing\ndisappointment on account of lacking genuine participatory processes,\xa0 the government needs to support the legal\nreform Advisory Council and, where appropriate, work to improve and strengthen\nthe institution. In so doing the government needs to be cognizant of the need\nto take advantage of but at the same time respect the independence and\nprofessionalism of the Advisory Council. This may, in part, mean that the\ngovernment ought to seek support for the legal reform process from civil\nsociety and opposition political parties and a wide spectrum of Ethiopian society\nas a project such as this one ought to be seen as a project of the entirety of\nEthiopia and not just the ruling party. '], ['Where possible and applicable,\nthe government should also replicate the strengths of the Advisory Council,\nmore specifically its aspects regarding inclusivity, participation, professionalism, independence\nand voluntarism, in other transitional undertakings that require the\nparticipation of technically capable experts. In doing so, the government\nshould, however, be cognizant of the fact that volunteers – especially those\nwith high-level expertise – are not going to provide gratis services perpetually\nor where their contribution and advise is put aside for political,\nadministrative or other short-term experiences. If the government wants to be\nseriously taken in its efforts to deal with legal reform, or justice and\nreconciliation and between identity and administrative boundaries, it needs to\nbe serious about the technical advice provided by volunteers or paid staff. '], ['On the side of the Legal and Justice Affairs Advisory Council itself, despite the successes of its volunteers, one improvement that it ought to make is to bring the work of the silent fighters into the limelight. It is understandable that the Council’s volunteers just want to contribute their technical capabilities without having to be pulled into the day’s radicalized political scene. However, they have to be cognizant of the fact that their work is about to introduce significant changes to the legal, administrative and regulatory system of Ethiopia. These are significant changes the likes of which have not been repeated since the 1960’s. However, unlike during the 1960’s, Ethiopia is currently in the process of transitioning to a more democratic and open polity. This means that public visibility and engagement are not just what the legal reforms ought to achieve – they should be part of the entire process.\xa0 AS'], ['_______________________________//________________________________'], ['Editor’s Note: Abadir M. Ibrahim (J.S.D.) is a human rights lawyer and an adjunct lecturer of human rights law at St. Thomas University School of Law. He is currently a volunteer filling the role of the head the Secretariat of Ethiopia’s Legal and Justice Affairs Advisory Council. '], ['Abduletif Kedir Idris is a lecturer Center for Human Rights Studies at AAU and a PhD Candidate at the Max Plank Institute for Social Anthropology. He volunteered in filling the role of the deputy head of the Secretariat of Ethiopia’s Legal and Justice Affairs Advisory Council for a year and a half. ']]}, {'Date': 'February 10, 2020', 'Header': 'News Alert: Gov’t, partners appeal for urgent response to contain “devastating impact” of desert locust', 'news_paragraphs': [['Building national and regional capacities for sustainable plant pest control '], ['Addis Abeba, February 10/2020 –  The Food and  Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and partners appealed for urgent scaling up of response actions by all actors to mitigate the devastating impact of the Desert Locust on food security and livelihoods in the Horn of Africa.'], ['In a joint briefing, the Government of Ethiopia, FAO, and the African  Union Commission (AUC) warned that if not controlled, the current  situation would be seriously amplified by new locust infestations, with a  great possibility of spreading further to Eritrea, South Sudan, and Uganda.'], ['The joint meeting held in Addis Abeba on February 07 briefed ministers and  officials from eight Eastern African countries, key partners, and the  media, on the dire situation of the desert locust in the region. The  locust represents an unprecedented threat to food security and  livelihoods in Africa and has the potential to become a regional plague  that could further lead to suffering, displacement, and potential  conflict. The meeting presented ongoing operations and recommended the  way forward to scale up control interventions.'], ['In her remarks, Maria Helena Semedo, Deputy Director-General for FAO,\n appealed to resource partners to support scaling up of control actions \nby FAO and partners. “I urge you to consider the resources available and\n how your Representation or Organization can contribute to the growing \nlist of donors to FAO’s response plan for effective Desert Locust \nControl in the Horn of Africa. Locusts do not wait, they will go \nwherever they want and they will destroy anything they want. Please do \nnot wait to act, let us work together to upscale operations and recovery\n efforts to safeguard livelihoods and food security in the Greater Horn \nof Africa,” Semedo stressed.'], ['Scourge in the Horn of Africa'], ['The Desert Locust is one of the most devastating migratory pests in \nthe world and it is highly mobile and feeds on large quantities of any \nkind of green vegetation, including crops, pasture, and fodder. A \ntypical swarm can be made up of 150 million locusts per square kilometer\n and is carried on the wind, up to 150 km in one day.\xa0 Even a very \nsmall, one square kilometer locust swarm can eat the same amount of food\n in one day as about 35 000 people.'], ['The current outbreak is ravaging the crop and pasture in the Greater \nHorn of Africa; damaging tens of thousands of hectares of cropland and \npasture in Ethiopia, Kenya, and Somalia. This is the worst outbreak in \nover 25 years in Ethiopia and Somalia and the worst observed in over 70 \nyears in Kenya.'], ['The Locust presents an extremely alarming and unprecedented threat to\n food security and livelihoods in the region. If not controlled, the \ncurrent situation will be further exacerbated by new locust infestations\n in Ethiopia, Kenya, and Somalia; and with a great possibility of \nspreading further to Eritrea, South Sudan, and Uganda. If locust swarms \ncontinue unhindered, this will have serious implications on crop \nproduction in the upcoming main season across the entire region.\xa0'], ['Even though governments are conducting aerial/ground control \noperations, spraying pesticides to kill the large swarms, capacities are\n stretched to the limit by the speed of the pests and the scale of \ninfestation. Working with governments and partners, FAO is rapidly \nraising funds and surging experts and supplies to the affected countries\n to scale up anti-locust activities.'], ['Semedo highlighted the need to respond urgently in order to reduce \nthe impact on food security. “We are facing an unprecedented upsurge of \nDesert Locusts in the Greater Horn of Africa. Without proper \ncontainment, this upsurge threatens to provoke a humanitarian crisis,” \nshe further noted.'], ['The situation has rapidly deteriorated in January as weather \nconditions have been unusually conducive to the spread of the pest. \nThese conditions will allow breeding until June 2020 and could lead to \n500 times more locusts, with the formation of large numbers of swarms. \nThe current situation is not at a plague level, but this upsurge could \nbecome a plague – hence the focus on swift action to reduce another \nround of reproduction.'], ['Going forward on robust response'], ['Outlining ongoing operations on the ground, Bukar \nTijani, FAO Assistant Director-General, Agriculture and Consumer \nProtection Department stated that as the outbreak has worsened; FAO has \nmobilized staff and resources and is working closely with governments \nand partners in a food security-fragile region.'], ['In his statement, Ethiopian State Minister for Agriculture, \nGebre-Egziabher Gebre-Yohannes, noted that the Desert Locust is ravaging\n Ethiopia and the neighboring countries with unprecedented scale. “The \ninfestation happened this time when Ethiopia is dealing with the impacts\n of previous and ongoing droughts. If not well controlled, the locust \nwill aggravate the situation.”'], ['The meeting agreed that increased financial commitments and \ninnovation are needed to support the response plan. There is a need to \nreinforce national commitment to contain the Desert Locust invasion at \nthe country and regional level and increase capacity in establishing \nsustainable management of plant pest control.\xa0 Intensive ground and \naerial control operations are urgently needed in order to detect and \nreduce locust populations, prevent more swarms from forming and avoid \nthe spread to even more vulnerable areas.']]}, {'Date': 'February 5, 2020', 'Header': 'News: 4 500 drought-affected pastoral households in Somali region receive unconditional cash transfer', 'news_paragraphs': [['Cash transfer aimed at Enabling beneficiaries to meet their immediate needs and to kick-start productive activities'], ['Addis Abeba, February 05/2020 – The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) has  provided 4 500 drought-affected pastoral households in the Somali  region with unconditional cash transfers to meet their immediate needs  and invest in productive activities.'], ['Each beneficiary household received 80 USD transfers between December\n 2019 and January 2020. Households with few animals, as well as those \nheaded by women, and with children, the elderly, and disabled, and sick \npersons were prioritized. They were drawn from Daror, Deghabur, Yoale \nWoredas (districts).'], ['“Ultimately, the cash transfers will help improve food security, \nrestore livelihoods, and minimize the need to resort to negative coping \nmechanisms,” said Fatouma Seid, the FAO Representative in Ethiopia.'], ['Implemented in collaboration with the Somali regional government, \nSave the Children and Somali Microfinance Institution, the cash transfer\n intervention is part of the “Early Action” that FAO launched in 2019 to\n safeguard the livelihoods of vulnerable pastoral and agro-pastoral \ncommunities.'], ['Pastoral communities were affected by below-average Belg rainfall in \n2019, compounded by the impact of consecutive droughts in the previous \nyears, as well as conflict-induced internal displacements. These \ncircumstances resulted in deteriorating animal body conditions, \nincreased disease outbreaks, poor livestock market value, livestock \ndeath, and reduced milk yields.'], ['Relief to cash-strapped communities'], ['The cash transfers have enabled the beneficiaries to purchase the goods and services they need most.'], ['Aisha Muhammed 60, who lost ten goats during the drought in 2019, was\n relieved to get the cash. “In December 2019, I purchased essential \nhousehold items such as soap, sugar, and vaseline for my grandchildren. \nNow I am going to buy food. I will also buy two kids to boost my herd,” \nshe said.'], ['Amina Abdi 37, said, “Before I received the cash, we had run out of \nfood and were having one meal per day on average. I closed my restaurant\n because I used all the capital to buy food. Now I have bought enough \nrice to last the lean period, and I am going to re-open my restaurant”, \nshe said.'], ['The “Early Action” is supporting 151 000 households in Afar, Oromia, \nSomali and Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples’ regional states\n with livestock treatment services, supplementary animal feed and seed \nfor food and forage production.'], ['The Program is funded by the United Nations Central Emergency  Response Fund and the European Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid  Operations.']]}, {'Date': 'January 21, 2020', 'Header': 'News Alert: At least 24 die in latest cholera outbreak in Oromia, Somali and SNNP regional states: UN', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba, January 21/2020 – Since mid-December 2019, over 1045 cholera cases and at least 24 related deaths have been reported in SNNPR (Southern Nations,  Nationalities and Peoples’ Region), Oromia (Guji zone) and Somali  (Shabelle zone) regions in Ethiopia. The most affected zones are South Omo and Gofa in SNNPR with 970 cases and 18 deaths, according to the UNOCHA office in Addis Abeba. '], ['Regional and local authorities have established emergency tasks forces and deployed rapid response teams with the help of international  partners, including MSF, UNICEF, WHO as well as DG ECHO funded partners  (IRC, PIN, UNICEF). Assessments of critical gaps and response  coordination efforts are ongoing following alerts and government  requests, including case management support by Regional Health Bureaus and INGOs.'], ['In 2019 and before these latest episodes, a total of 2074 cholera  cases had been reported, with all regions and administrative cities  affected, except Gambella and Benishangul-Gumuz regions. Cholera outbreaks remain a major public threat in Ethiopia mainly due to  poor living conditions, inadequate water and sanitation facilities and  poor health and hygiene practices. UN/AS']]}, {'Date': 'January 9, 2020', 'Header': 'News: Ethiopia secures  US$305.7 m to help 13 m farmers get access to financial services', 'news_paragraphs': [['The agreement, signed between Ethiopia and International Fund For Agricultural Development (IFAD), aims to increase access to financial services in rural areas threatened by climate change'], ['Addis Abeba, January 09/2020  –A new US$305.7 million agreement was signed between Ethiopia and IFAD which is aimed at helping more than 13 million vulnerable farmers in Ethiopia “to increase and diversify their  incomes, access financial services and build their resilience in rural  areas threatened by climate change,” a statement from IFAD said.  '], ['Ethiopia’s\n agriculture sector, which employs 80 per cent of the population, \ncontinues to suffer from frequent droughts aggravated by climate change.\n In 2017, insufficient rainfall during the rainy season led to \ncatastrophic crop and livestock losses and left an estimated 8.5 million\n people in need of humanitarian assistance. '], ['“A financing agreement for the Rural Financial Intermediation Program  III (RUFIP III) was signed [yesterday] by Gilbert F. Houngbo, President of the  International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), and Zenebu  Tadesse Woldetsadik, Ambassador, Permanent Representative of the [of Ethiopia] to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Agencies in Rome,” IFAD said. '], ['Access  to finance is crucial for rural people – particularly those whose  incomes are threatened by a changing climate – to expand their  businesses, and to take advantage of new emerging livelihood  opportunities along agricultural and agro-industrial value chain, according to Ulaç Demirag, Country Director for Ethiopia. “This  new program will provide financial products and services to poor  rural people in the least developed areas to promote poverty reduction  and livelihood risk mitigation,” he said.'], ['RUFIP  III will build on the lessons and experiences of the first two phases  of the program, and will scale up delivery of rural financial services  tailored to the needs of the most vulnerable smallholder farmers,  particularly women and young people. '], ['It\n will strengthen the capacity of the rural finance institutions to \ndeliver an expanded range of financial products and services to a large \nnumber of rural poor people. It will also support the uptake of these \nproducts by rural savings and credit cooperatives and microfinance \ninstitutions through financial literacy training. It will also develop \ninsurance products through the rural finance institutions to allow \nsmallholder farmers to mitigate the risks related to climate change.'], ['Despite  improvements, Ethiopia’s child malnutrition rates are still the highest  in sub-Saharan Africa. “The program will also promote nutrition  awareness through campaigns and demonstrations, targeting the areas most  vulnerable to food insecurity due to climate change. \xa0It will also help  farmers and small enterprises to enhance their resilience to weather  related shocks.”'], ['The funding includes a $35.1 million grant and $4.9 million loan from IFAD,  with significant co-financing from international development partners and from national financial institutions. The Government of Ethiopia’s  contribution is $51.9 million and $0.9million from the beneficiaries  themselves. '], ['Since 1980, IFAD has invested $795.5 million in 20 rural development  programs and projects in Ethiopia worth a total of $2.1 billion. These  have directly benefited around 12 million rural households, the statement said. AS']]}]
[{'Date': 'December 23, 2019', 'Header': 'Feature: IAEA helping Ethiopia  increase cancer control with new equipment, training', 'news_paragraphs': [['Ethiopia Gears Up for Increased Cancer Control with New Equipment, Training and Smooth Licensing '], [' Miklos Gaspar '], ['Addis Abeba, December 24/2019 –  Ethiopia has only a single functioning radiotherapy machine for its 105 million people, but the country’s new government, which took office 16 months  ago, has ambitious plans to change that – with the support of the IAEA  and other development partners.'], ['The government is acquiring new equipment, constructing a new,  8-floor oncology center in the capital Addis Abeba, and is assigning  doctors trained through IAEA fellowships to regional hospitals, where  some of the radiotherapy machines will go.'], ['“Too much time had been spent with little progress —\xa0we are working  to change that,” said Wendmagegn Gezahegn, Head of the St Paul’s  Hospital in Addis Abeba, which looks as much as a construction site in a  boom town as a functioning hospital. Founded by Emperor Haile Selassie  in the 1960s to cater for the poor, it is the country’s second largest  hospital and once the current expansion project is completed in coming  years, it will be the largest, with close to 5000 beds, fit to treat  half a million patients per year. The new wing will include an oncology  center with 350 beds and 5 linear accelerator (Linac) machines and  brachytherapy units for cancer treatment, as well as a new cyclotron  facility to produce radiopharmaceuticals for diagnosis and treatment of  diseases. \xa0The construction of the bunkers that will house the  radiotherapy machines for safe operation will begin in coming months,  while the room to hold the cyclotron is already being built.'], ['“The  key to planning is to make sure that every machine has a maintenance  plan —\xa0we need to budget more than just the purchase cost,” Gezahegn  said.And indeed, one of the country’s two Cobalt-60 radiotherapy machines  has been out of service since 2015 in Addis Abeba’s Black Lion Hospital  due to lack of funding to repair it. “We need to learn from past  mistakes and move forward,” Gezahegn said.'], ['Training professionals'], ['In parallel with the \nconstruction and procurement of the machines, the country also needs \nwell-trained oncologists, medical physicists and radiology technicians \n—\xa0and has turned to the IAEA for support.'], ['The IAEA has so far sponsored fellowships in Ghana and South Africa  for ten oncologists, while several medical physicists have been trained  in Italy and Ghana, explained Aynalem Wolemariam, Head of the Oncology  Department at the Black Lion Hospital. Some of the trainees will work in  the capital, while others will move to regional centers. Radiotherapy  machines in two of these centers, Jimma and Harar, have been purchased  and are being set up, while another three centers are under preparation.'], ['One of these is going to be located in the southern city of Hawassa,  and oncology resident Fahin Osman will use it to treat patients. He is  currently undergoing training at Black Lion, which is also a teaching  hospital, using — among others —\xa0equipment donated by the IAEA. On a  recent Tuesday morning he was analyzing the CT scan of the head of a  14-year old boy, who has advanced nasopharyngeal cancer. “With careful  planning of radiotherapy, we hope to destroy the cancer cells and save  the vital organs close to the tumour,” he said, while preparing the  boy’s treatment plan on a CT simulator donated through the IAEA’s Peaceful Uses Initiative  in 2015. Even though the cancer is in advanced stage locally, it has  not spread in the boy’s body, which means there is a good chance he can  be cured, Osman said.'], ['Over 67 000 new cancer cases were diagnosed in Ethiopia in 2018, and \nalmost 48 000 people died from the disease that same year according to \nthe International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC).\n In line with the global trend, the country’s cancer burden is \nincreasing significantly — by 2040, the number of new cases is expected \nto more than double, making the need for sufficient treatment facilities\n even more urgent.'], ['The waiting time for radiotherapy treatment at Black Lion is one  year, and by the time they get access to radiotherapy, 70% of the  patients are in the final stages of the diseases and require palliative  care. Reducing the waiting time could be the difference between life and  death. Doctors hope that the number and percentage of those who can be  cured will grow as the number of machines is increasing along with  education of both the wider public and physicians about the importance  of early diagnosis.'], ['Oncologists\n and public health officials are well aware that Ethiopia has a lot of \ncatching up to do: the IAEA recommends four radiotherapy machines per \none million people, a ratio that will take many expansion projects and \nseveral decades to reach. As the first step, authorities hope the \ncountry will soon have nine functioning machines. “Ethiopia is \ndeveloping rapidly and it is important that the economic growth means an\n increased standard of living nationwide,” Gezahegn said. “Providing \naccess to cancer services, including radiotherapy, is a key component of\n that.”'], ['A challenge that remains is the training of radiotherapy technicians.\n A curriculum for local training has been under approval for years, so \nin the meantime technicians need to be sent abroad to be trained to \noperate radiotherapy machines, said Wolemariam. \xa0'], ['“Development of local training schemes is key to the implementation \nof the services,” explained Kirsten Hopkins, Radiation Oncologist at the\n IAEA. “It is not feasible to provide expatriate training for the \nnumbers of staff required for all the planned facilities.”'], ['The IAEA has provided Ethiopia with training and expert advice on the  new course curriculum and will continue to provide support through its  technical co-operation program, she added.'], ['Licensing new machines'], ['The country’s \nradiation protection authorities are gearing up for the licensing of the\n new equipment, said Solomon Mekonnen, Director General of the Ethiopian\n Radiation Protection Authority. “We have been involved since the early \nstages of the radiotherapy expansion process and will do our best to \nauthorize the equipment quickly, assuming all safety conditions are \nmet,” he said.'], ['Almost all of the Authority’s 40 technical staff, including those in \nthe licensing department, have received training via IAEA fellowships \nand courses, Mekonnen said. \xa0'], ['Having all stakeholders —\xa0ministries, authorities, health experts  —\xa0work together is key to making a difference, said Sandokan Debebe,  Director General of the Technology and Innovation Institute of Ethiopia,  which coordinates the IAEA’s projects in the country. “We have a  holistic view to make sure that all angles are covered, and no future  machine will sit idle due to lack of funds for repair or expertise to  operate or license them,” he said. AS'], ['_______________________________//________________________'], ['Miklos Gaspar is from IAEA Office of Public Information and Communication ']]}, {'Date': 'December 19, 2019', 'Header': 'News: Ethiopian women participation in politics up but a lot needs to be done', 'news_paragraphs': [['Mahlet Fasil '], ['Addis Abeba, December 19/2019– The number of Ethiopian women in the national legislative and executive branches has grown significantly since Ethiopia conducted its first parliamentary election in 1995. However a lot more needs to be done to make sure women are proportionally represented in political decision making.   '], ['This was highlighted at a daylong national conference under the theme: “Women’s Political  Participation and Election in Ethiopia: Envisioning 2020 and Beyond for  generation Equality.”  The conference was organized by UN Women  Ethiopia, in collaboration with Addis Abeba University’s Center for  Human Rights.    '], ['“Women politicians face unique forms of online and offline attacks and deliberate actions to discourage their participation in politics. This reflects how patriarchal [our] society is in its functions,” said Daniel Bekele (PhD), Commissioner of Ethiopia Human Rights Commissioner, during his keynote speech. He also said that women face particular challenges in times of elections that seriously impact and discourage their participation.'], ['According to UN women Ethiopia. after Ethiopia’s transition to a federal democratic republic in 1991, the share of seats held by women in parliament has climbed from under three percent in 1991 to 38 percent today. The gender gap in the cabinet has also been upped to 50 percent since Prime Minister came to office. '], ['However the figures are not a match when it comes to women in leadership and strong presence in politics. “Ethiopian women constitute 51% of the country’s population and they represent more numbers than the proportion of all nations and religions. Questions should be asked as to why they [women] are not the mainstream considerations of elections and leadership positions,” said Dr. Sehin Teferra, Founder of Setaweet Movement, a movement working to create “a space for dialogue, research and activism by Ethiopian women and men.” Dr. Sehin presented a panel on women political participation.'], ['“According to a 2019 report by world economic forum Ethiopia holds 16th place in world on women political participation” said Yelfigne Abegaz National program Coordinator, UN Women. '], ['But for Dr. Sehin, bringing women to politics by itself is not the only thing that matter, but “the policies these women bring” and the actual implementations of these polices is. '], ['Yelfigne said realizing such gaps, under its women in leadership and governance program UN women is collaborating with various entities to amplify a meaningful participation of women in decision making venues. Similar collaboration with the Ethiopian Broadcasting Authority (EBA) aimed to provide capacity building training for 151 women print and broadcasting media professionals including volunteer journalist from community radios participants came from public and private media houses across the country. '], ['In 2017 UN women’s current program on women in leadership and governance supported women’s effective participation and equal representation in leadership and decision making. “It focuses on the national and regional legislative and executive branches while also seeking change in communities,” according to a document.  '], ['UN Women also collaborates nationally with the ministry of women, children and youth and regionally with Amhara regional state bureau of women, children and youth affairs. It also engages with the house of peoples representatives, particularly \xa0the parliamentary women’s caucus and\xa0 parliamentary\xa0 standing committees and their counterparts at the regional level. Other partners include education institutions such as Addis Abeba University and Bahir Dar University the center for human rights and community organization. AS']]}, {'Date': 'December 17, 2019', 'Header': 'News: In Sigmo, Ethiopia, livelihood support gives a chance to returnees', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba, december 17/2029 –After months in Yemen,\xa0Fuad\xa0Faris  returned to Ethiopia in 2018. He had spent his savings in a bid to reach  Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in search of a well-paying job. His dreams  were, however, shattered after being intercepted in Yemen for  irregularly crossing into the country.\xa0'], ['“I left in search of money and a better life, but what I found on the\n way was quite the opposite,”\xa0Fuad, now in his early twenties, \nexplained.\xa0'], ['While he was relieved to return to Ethiopia after his ordeal in a  foreign country, he had no idea how he would survive after settling in  his hometown of\xa0Sigmo, in western part of Jimma zone, in Oromia Regional State.\xa0\xa0'], ['Now, two years later and with the help of IOM’s voluntary  humanitarian return\xa0program,\xa0Fuad\xa0is the proud owner of a small kiosk.  He is among 122 returnees who have benefited from a reintegration  assistance supported by the Danish Government that IOM is implementing  in\xa0Sigmo.\xa0\xa0'], ['In addition to his kiosk,\xa0Fuad\xa0recently purchased cattle fodder he \nwill use on farmland he acquired. He hopes to earn even more money from \nthis activity to provide for his family.\xa0'], ['Fuad\xa0now says he earns a higher income than what he used to make \nbefore he decided to leave the country, which was a major push factor in\n his original decision to try to irregularly travel to the Kingdom of \nSaudi Arabia.\xa0\xa0'], ['Ahmed Jemal, another IOM beneficiary who runs a shop a few blocks \nfrom\xa0Faud’s, states that he now has savings and is planning to transform\n his shop into one of the town’s biggest.\xa0\xa0'], ['“I now tell many young people in my neighborhood that they should not\n despair and hope that life is any better on the other side. Life can be\n good here too if you work hard,” Ahmed said.\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0'], ['Depending on the availability of funding, IOM provides reintegration \nsupport to returnees based on their individual needs and interests. \nIn\xa0Sigmo, the reintegration assistance has supported the establishment \nof vending kiosks, retail shops, and cattle fattening businesses.\xa0\xa0'], ['With most of the shop owners having grown their stock since their \nbusiness was initially set up last year, and with cattle fattening \nbusinesses now serving dairy farms, the success rate of all the \nreintegrated beneficiaries in\xa0Sigmo\xa0is high.\xa0\xa0'], ['In 2019, IOM Ethiopia was able to provide reintegration assistance to  2,017 individuals from various countries. IOM’s reintegration efforts  and livelihood support\xa0programs are part of the organization’s effort  to make communities more resilient to irregular migration by providing  alternative livelihoods.\xa0\xa0\xa0'], ['“We conduct assessments and consult with the returnees on how they \nare doing. So far, we have not witnessed any returnee who has had to \nclose shop or re-migrated through irregular means. However, their \nsuccess mostly depends on their dedication and hard work,” Abdulhakim \nMusa, a monitoring expert from the Ministry of Social Affairs in\xa0Sigmo, \nsays of the returnees’ success.\xa0'], ['According to this official, reintegration support and business skills  trainings are very useful in allowing returnees to start successful  enterprises. IOM ']]}, {'Date': 'December 11, 2019', 'Header': 'Analysis: The plastic pile weighing on Ethiopia', 'news_paragraphs': [['Etenesh Abera and Bileh Jelan '], ['Addis Abeba, December 10/2019 – According to the UN environment body, UNEP, globally “one million plastic drinking bottles are purchased every minute and Five trillion single-use plastic bags are used worldwide every year.” In total, half of all plastics produced annually are designed to be used once: the world produces 300 million tons of plastic waste annually, a weight equivalent to the weight of the entire human population.  '], ['In Ethiopia, a Country Cluster of EUROMAP-European Plastics and Rubber Machinery puts the per capita plastic consumption in 2018 at 2.8 kg, a 267% rise from a figure that put the consumption per capita at 0.6 kg in 2007. That places Ethiopia as the second largest importer of plastic raw material in central and eastern Africa and the fastest growing plastics industry in the continent. '], ['While countries like Kenya and Rwanda, two of the other fastest growing economies in Sub-Saharan Africa, are seeing policy changes toward reduction of plastic consumption and an all-out ban on single-use plastic products, Ethiopia is seeing a rise in its plastic consumption and production.  EUROMAP predicts that Ethiopia will produce 386,000 tons by 2022 and the per capita consumption will rise to reach 3.8 Kg. '], ['Teshale Woreku, owner of a local butcher, corroborates EUROMAP’s alarming prediction when he speaks of the rise in plastic bag consumption in his field of business. “We buy 50 plastic bags for 22 ETB (some $70 cents) and 32 plastic bags for 16 ETB. During holidays,\xa0we consume up to 50 packs per day,” he told Addis Standard.  According to him in an ordinary, non-fasting Saturdays and Sundays, the use plastic bags rise up to 10 packs, each pack consisting of dozens of plastic bags. “As a shop owner I will be happy if customers can use alternatives\xa0materials for two reasons. First, the plastic bag used to package meat for customers are one-time use. I believe this affects the environment. Secondly, it makes sense economically, since the cost of providing such materials is contributing to increases in meat prices.” \xa0'], ['The story of the vegetable market is no different. Solomon, a local distributor of vegetables, who only wanted to be referred by his first name,  told Addis Standard he did not know exactly how much plastic bags he uses per day. “I am not sure but we buy 2000-3000 ETB (around $70 – 100) worth of plastic bags each month, so we don’t know exactly how much plastic bags we are using daily,” he said.’’ A customer at Solomon’s shop who was packing her goods, says she would take more than 10 plastic bags every four days for vegetables alone and another 10 bags for other items. “I am always surprised at the amount of plastic bags I consume alone,” she said. '], ['These figures add up to Ethiopia’s troubling rise in the use of plastic material when considering the country’s non-existing garbage disposal facility and culture, especially the absence of proper sorting in the types of household garbage. Most plastic materials end up in the streets, rivers and alleys of urban and rural Ethiopia: on sidewalks and farmlands alike.'], ['Lack of institutionalized research\xa0 '], ['There are several companies which are either engaged in importing or producing plastic bags in some form or another. Aleta Land Group,  “a local indigenous company that has been established to predominantly to engage in coffee exporting activities,” is one such company. But its marketing manager, Tigist Nemiru, told Addis standard, that “all raw materials we use in our production are environmentally friendly and we only produce poly bags”. However, there are no information available if if there were efforts by the company to conduct researches on either environmental impacts or decomposition of their products.  '], ['Speaking about the absence of corporate practices in mitigating plastic pollution and waste management, Dr Ahmed Hassen, a researcher at Addis Abeba University, admits that despite evidences linking lack of such data and the mounting problem, at the moment, “we don’t have any available research.” '], ['Yalemsew Adela, a researcher, an environmental technology expert and the director of the environmental pollution management directorate at the Ethiopian Environment and Forest Research institute highlighted the need for more coverage to such stories in a serious manner and called the stage Ethiopia is in “a plastic pollution stage.” “It is a nasty state; we consume huge amounts of plastics in various sectors and we can only imagine the amount of waste that is dumped on our eco-system,” he told Addis Standard.  '], ['According to Yalemsew, the packaging sector, which is using 60% of plastics produced in bottling and bagging, is the highest consumer of plastic products. The government is aware of the problem and is trying to find solutions. “Our current research project is focused on ways we can contribute in making a green economy, be it by reducing the contamination load on the environment or recycling.” He further explained that  institutional arrangements, policy and the legal frame work were some of the ways the government was looking into. But he admits “we have all these three and still I don’t understand where the problem lays. The problem is also associated with human behavior: we are designed to use the what we need and get rid of what we don’t,” he said. '], ['In the absence of viable policy '], ['The absence of a clear strategy and policy by responsible authorities such as City Administration offices to manage organic and non-organic waste separately is to take a chunk of the blame too, according to Yalemsew. “Addis Abeba spends 400 million ETB to manage all waste annually,” but effective management of such resource is another thing.'], ['One way of dealing with the problem is starting a public discussion on alternatives packaging than to the one-time use of plastic products, Yalemsew said, “We could produce long lasting packaging products; we could use bamboo and many other materials for example. But I mentioned the problem is not with lack of alternatives as it is the social behavior and the government’s failure in balancing between economic growth and environmental protection.” But he cautiously noted that before throwing all the blame on the government we should also consider that factors such as “more than 37 NGOs operating in Ethiopia are still teaching that hand washing before meals is important. Officials usually represent such communities.” '], ['Gutema Moroda (Eng.), Deputy Manager at Addis Abeba Environmental Protection Authority, also admits that the city does not have a strategy on separating organic and non-organic waste although “we have a proclamation and regulations in place and no corporation is allowed to dispose of waste without the permission of the authorities,” he told Addis Standard. '], ['However, the city administration is designing a policy to have biodegradables and bio plastics materials replace the current materials used in plastic production, to have Addis Ababa ban the use of plastic bags and to put into effect a law that demands the packaging sector to participate in the recycling their own products “I can’t pinpoint the exact date but Addis Abeba will ban the use plastic bags in the near future,” he said.'], [' Meanwhile, although few and far between, there are exemplary efforts where concerned authorities can look into possibilities. One exceptional example is Teki Paper Bags, a “social and environmental enterprise developed for  and by the deaf community”. '], [' Teki Paper Bags primary goal is to “create sustainable employment  to empower deaf women while building a plastic bag free Ethiopia,” according company information. So far, Teki has created job opportunities to 27 employees, of whom 17 are deaf employees, and has  replaced 805,000 plastic bags with paper bags. “At Teki, we aim to make a real and lasting change in the lives of deaf  women by providing meaningful employment, a social life, plus the ability to find a family and take care of their children through entrepreneurship.” '], ['By all accounts, initiatives such as Teki Paper Bags deserve all the policy support from government authorities if Ethiopia is to unshackle itself and become free from the weight of the plastic pile threatening its environment and its future generations.  AS   ']]}, {'Date': 'December 6, 2019', 'Header': 'Feature: Gojo: Providing shelter, relief to patients when they most need both', 'news_paragraphs': [['Etenesh Abera '], ['Addis Abeba, 6 December, 2019 – Born in 1991, Dr.Selamnesh Tsige, a Pediatrician and Assistant Professor of Pediatrics & Child Health at Addis Abeba University’s Tikur Anbessa Specialized Hospital, is the founder and president of Gojo Accommodation and Temporary Shelter for Patients in Need (Gojo). The shelter, licensed in 2015, started out as an informal feeding program. '], ['Initially, Dr. Selamnesh and her friends operated inside the Tikur Anbessa Specialized Hospital compound providing meals to up to 70 patients once a week. Soon after, mobilizing support from the Defense Construction Enterprise, Dr. Selamnesh was able to get an entire complex built in the compound of Teklehaimanot Health Center close to the hospital. This shelter has accommodated and supported 76,650 patients who have come from all over the country, providing light breakfast everyday and lunch three times a week, including holiday lunches. Gojo also covers the transportation cost of patients who have completed their treatment or have long appointments. '], ['Sintayehu Woreku from Debre Elias in Amhara region’s Gojam zone talks about her experience with Gojo. “I knew about Gojo in 2017 when I was taking care of my mother who was battling cervical cancer at the Black Lion Hospital,’’ she tells Addis Standard. She had thought her mother’s treatment at Tikur Anbessa Hospital would be over in two to three weeks and they’d be back home soon. But it went on for a whole year depleting their resources. “After we ran out of money, we started sleeping under the stairs of a building in the hospital,” recalls Sintayehu describing the level of misery they were going through for her mother’s treatment. That is when they heard about Gojo from the hospital’s social workers and went there seeking shelter. Her mother was taking chemotherapy every 21 days for eight rounds, which made trips home to recover between treatments unaffordable, and so they stayed in the shelter. '], ['Sintayehu’s story of the harsh conditions patients coming from afar face in many hospitals in Addis Abeba is all too common. With no relatives in the city and not a lot of money on their hands, many patients either discontinue their treatment to be able to afford to go back home, or start begging on the streets of Addis Abeba. To Sintayehu, Gojo’s support made all the difference.\xa0 '], ['Although  Sintayehu was not able to save her mother’s life, she is now helping the center as a volunteer. “After my mom finished her treatment, we went back home but my mom passed away a while later. I, then, decided to come back to the shelter and serve as a volunteer”, Sintayehu recalls. According to her back when she started working at the shelter, there were no volunteers, organizers and cleaners, so she started working as an organizer, a cleaner and patient support staff after discussing it with the founders. “It is a privilege for me to work at this shelter which became my heaven after 17 days of sleeping under the stairs and starving. The challenges I went through help me to understand the patients,” says Sintayehu who, after 8 months of volunteering, now works as a receptionist and cleaner at the shelter. '], ['Shashew Muche’s story is similar to Sintayehu’s in that\nshe was helpless due to a medical treatment when Gojo came to her rescue.\nShashew was diagnosed with breast cancer and has been staying in Gojo since May\nof 2019. “Before I joined Gojo, I was in a very harsh condition. I didn’t have\nanyone to help me and everything was a problem. I didn’t have food or a place\nto sleep. If this shelter wasn’t here, I would not have finished my treatment\nbecause my money ran out as soon as I arrived in Addis Abeba. I have no words\nto thank the founders of this shelter” she says.'], ['In Dr. Selamnesh’s shelter, 52 patients along with just as many immediate family members are accommodated at any one time with meals and a bed to sleep on. To patients like Shashew, this is as essential as the treatment they come to receive all the way to Addis Abeba. '], ['Caught up unprepared '], ['For many patients, the problem starts when they realize the money they have cannot cover the months-long wait during which several tests and procedures are carried out. Many are caught up unprepared. Mohammed-Hussein Hassen who is from Bale told Addis Standard he started staying in Gojo since October of 2019. “I am in this shelter with my little brother. We were staying under the stairs in the hospital without any food and clothes. The money we had in our pockets wasn’t enough for such a long time. My brother’s legs started to swell because of the cold after a while. Gojo was a heaven for us. I wish it will be expanded and shelter a lot of patients in need.” His sentiment is one that is universally shared among the patients. '], ['Sherif Abdurahman who is in Gojo with his seven year\nold son says he prays for the people responsible for Gojo. “I heard [my son]\nhas cancer after we came to Addis Abeba from Jimma. Gojo is like heaven for us.\nI personally don’t have words to thank them. I will pray for them to be blessed\nand more.”'], ['To Dr. Selamnesh, facilitating the transportation of patients back home after a successful stay in the shelter is “a big triumph”, a blessing and something to be proud of. Her work depends as much on volunteers as it does on determination. Individuals and community members from various parts of the city of Addis provide the center with essential assistance such as food and clothing, especially during holidays, when most patients are not able to travel home to celebrate. AS']]}]
[{'Date': 'November 29, 2019', 'Header': 'Analysis: With new proclamation in the making, Ethiopia aims to privatize six sugar projects in first quarter of 2020', 'news_paragraphs': [['Bileh Jelan'], ['Addis Abeba November 29/2019 –  Ethiopia’s State Minister of Finance, Eyob Tekalign (PhD), said Ethiopia was in the process of conducting evaluations including technical and social impact assessments and validation of factories covering all the thirteen sugar projects in Ethiopia with plans of privatizing six of them in the first quarter of the year 2020. '], ['The Ministry has also prepared a draft Sugar Industry Administration Proclamation, which, among other things, establishes a Sugar Board of Ethiopia with tasks that include regulating the sugar industry and licensing  and registering millers. (Please click here to download the draft proclamation.) '], ['This was revealed at a day-long public consultation on the sugar industry was organized by the ministry on Nov 27 at Sheraton Addis. The event saw the presence of representatives of key government officials such as Eyob himself, Weyo Roba, CEO/Ethiopian Sugar Corporation, Beyene Gebremeskel, Director General/ Public Enterprises Agency and Dr. Brook Tayeb, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance along with representatives of different stakeholders and local and foreign investors.'], ['“As you know, the Ethiopian government is undertaking homegrown reforms where one of its agendas is to turn the focus on public enterprises,” Said Eyob and clarified that the purpose of the consultation was to inform, educate and consult the public about the reform process the sugar industry is undergoing. The sugar policy is “changing the way the telecoms policy changed,”he said. '], ['The objectives “are to fulfill domestic demands, to generate exports and to create jobs,” he said, adding, “to attract investors and make the industry attractive so Ethiopia could reach its high potential, are important.” '], ['Weyo Roba, the CEO of Ethiopian Sugar Corporation, complimented Dr. Eyob when he said, “our roadmap is to make our factories more efficient and reach our highest potential.”'], ['In the introductory remarks given by Henok Assefa, Founder of Precise Consult International and Co-Founder of Angel Investors Network Ethiopia, said, “The sugar industry is a priority sector, and the government invested billions and billions of dollars in it.” Highlighting the goals of the consultation and explaining that an eco-system that sees participation from all stakeholders would “make the industry excel locally and compete globally.” '], ['Dr. Eyob Tekalign in his opening remarks on the sugar industry privatization and government priorities made the point of explaining that the whole idea of homegrown reforms was to have better understanding and have better results. “The government is building on past successes while achieving and pushing for its own”, the state minister said. Speaking on the importance of homegrown reforms the state minister added, “Reforms should be family anchored and relatable to the Ethiopian socio-economic factors.” He added that through the reform process the government was aiming at seeing the sugar industry fulfill its potential, creating an inclusive environment for the private sector to take lead in the industry and having the country become the regional leader in sugar production. '], ['A presentation by Dr. Tewodros Mekonnen on the sugar industry privatization, assessing policy and regulation highlighted that the industry is performing below potential, has an infant out grower schemes, is inefficient in logistics and distribution, is affected by low export competitiveness and high import demand and affected by the high excise tax that stands sat 33%. DR. Tewodros said “Estimates of sugar consumption in the country put it at 6-7 kg per capita, some estimates put it as high as 12 kg which is still below African standards,” he added, “Consumption will rise according to research in diet.” In his presentation he suggested separation of out growers development schemes from the sugar board, reasonable adjustment of the excise tax, adjustment to domestic and international trade policies and price stabilization could help push for positive results. '], ['A presentation on sugar regulatory reform needs and key features of the draft sugar proclamation by Getahun Walegn followed. The presentation tried to answer questions raised about the need for a separate regulatory framework for the sugar industry. The product’s political sensitivity and importance to key industries such as food processing and pharmaceuticals, the peculiar characteristics of the industry, private sector interest, industry protection from global distortion and its role in jobs creation for rural communities were given as primary reasons. The presentation also discussed the Draft Sugar Proclamation that saw the establishment of both the Sugar Board and the Sugar Arbitration Tribunal and further discussed the technicalities of the Sugar Academy & Research institute.'], ['Michael Hinge, a Senior Analyst at LMC International Ltd, gave a presentation on global, regional & domestic sugar markets and its implications on the Ethiopian industry. He discussed supply and demand in Ethiopia and put the official figure for sugar consumption at 5-6 kg per capita with 550-660 thousand tonnes produced annually from 8 functioning factories, which is below neighboring coastal countries where unofficial sugar inflow increases per capita consumption. He also put the unofficial inflow of sugar at 150-225 thousand tonnes in 2018/19 fiscal year and predicted that consumption will rise by 3-4% annually. On the supply and demand in export markets, Mr. Hinge noted “Ethiopia is located in a deficit region in Africa.”'], ['A plenary Q&A session followed with Henok Assefa as moderator, Beyene Gebremeskel of the Public Enterprises Agency, DR. Brook Taye of the Ministry of Finance, Fasil Gebremeriam of the Ethiopian Sugar Corporation, Dr. Tewodros Mekonnen, the Country Economist at IGC, Getahun Walelgn and Michael Hinge of LMC International Ltd as panelists. Answering a question regarding the potential of job creation Beyene Gebremeskel said, “The industry currently employs 30,000 people. When all factories commence operations, that could increase 10 folds and indirect jobs created may surpass into the millions.” Dr. Book Taye, discussing the issue of who will have monopoly over the industry said, “We want to make sure nobody has monopoly over the sugar industry and no-one has monopoly over how the sugar board is structured.” Underlining the nature of the newly established Sugar Board, Fasil Gebremeriam said, “The board is not a regulatory board, it is a consulting body representing different associations and professionals in order to manage private and public interests.”'], ['Responding to Addis Standard  on delays in PM Abiy Ahmed’s promise to have factories on the pipelines begin to operate within six shortly after he assumed his premiership, Weyo Roba of the Ethiopian Sugar Corporation said, “When PM Abiy Ahmed took office only six factories were operational. The delay was due to old contracts terminations, technical issues and the re-evaluation process for some of the projects.” He added, concluding, “A factory will go operational in 6 months, other factories are under construction and the Omo-Kuraz plant will start construction in a month’s time.” '], ['In October this year, Bloomberg News reported that Ethiopia was “investigating possible misappropriation of funds meant for the expansion of 10 state-owned sugar factories that are part of the industry now slated for privatization.”AS'], ['Related story on Ethiopia’s scandal hit Sugar industry: ']]}, {'Date': 'November 29, 2019', 'Header': 'Op-ed: Assuring women, young girls a life free from violence should be everyone’s business', 'news_paragraphs': [['Solomon Ayele Dersso (PhD) &  Aya Chebbi, for Addis Standard\xa0 '], ['Addis Abeba, November 29/2019 – Violence, weather in the form of verbal abuse, online trolls, sexual harassment, physical assault or rape, remains to be the most common form of oppression that women and young girls face.\xa0'], ['It is so pervasive. Despite variations, it happens in all\nsocieties. Every woman or young girl experience it or at the very least lives\nunder the constant shadow of it.\xa0'], ['Violence or abuse is so rampant that women and young girls\nexperience it in almost all places. No place seems to be safe. Violence against\nand abuse of women and young girls take place in private spaces such as at\nhome, a space that is supposed to provide care and affection. Women and young\ngirls also face violence and abuse in public spaces including on the streets\nand public facilities such as public transport.\xa0'], ['Women and young girls have to worry about which route to take when\nwalking on streets. They have to worry about their appearance or dressing when\nplanning to use public transport or going to public facilities to receive\npublic services.\xa0'], ['More disturbingly even at schools including institutions of higher\nlearning or places of work or even of worship are not fully safe for women and\nyoung girls.\xa0'], ['For the young generation whose life experience has been\ninseparably tied with new technology and the online life of social media\nplatforms, a new front of psychological violence and abuse has emerged. In this\nsphere, violence has become monstrous and absolute targeting the privacy, the\nbody shapes and social engagement of women and young girls. The abuse taking\nplace in this space often leads young women and girls in particular into\nself-loathing and commuting suicide.\xa0'], ['Women and young girls face violence and abuse in all seasons –\nboth in peace times and in times of crisis or conflict. Indeed, violence\nagainst women and young girls is not a phenomenon that arise in times of crisis\nor conflicts. What makes violence against women challenging is that it is\ncommon even in times that are free from crisis or conflicts in society.\xa0'], ['Surely, the scale and gravity of violence heightens during times of crisis and conflict. Little wonder that women and young girls bear the brunt of violence in times of societal crisis and conflicts. As the abduction of Chibok girls by Boko Haram in Nigeria or the raping of women and other forms of sexual violence in the DRC and South Sudan conflicts show, in times of crisis or violent conflict, the bodies of women and young girls can end up becoming the theater or site where the fighting takes place. That is why women and young girls are become particular target of violence by conflict parties during crisis or situations of armed conflict.\xa0'], ['Despite all the knowledge and awareness mobilized over the years,\nthere is little improvement in the exposure of women and young girls to\nviolence and abuse. Certainly, there are improvements in the legal arena with\nlaws increasingly proscribing various forms of violence against women. Women\nrights, despite contestations from social and cultural conservative forces\nincluding the legislative backlash, are becoming mainstream.\xa0'], ['These improvements do not reflect the lived experiences of most\nwomen and young girls. That is why despite having one of the most progressive\nconstitution and legal system in the world violence against and abuse of women\nand young girls is declared by South Africa as a major crisis facing the\ncountry.\xa0'], ['What is disturbing is not merely that women and young girls face\nviolence and abuse in almost all seasons and in almost all spaces. More\ndisturbing is the tolerance that states, governments and other sectors of\nsociety show for such violence and abuse. Equally disturbing is also the\nfailure of states, government and members of society to ensure that women and\nyoung girls live a life free from violence and hence punish violence against\nwomen and young girls.\xa0'], ['Partly, this is a result of the violent masculinity that arises from dominant patriarchal culture, which makes women and girls vulnerable in all the structures of power. Unbalanced power relations are affecting the achievement of equality, which require an urgent action to ensure that opportunities are provided to empower girls and women in understanding their rights, in accessing equitable justice. In part violence against women and girls results from the commercial and pop culture that portrays women principally, if not exclusively, as sexual objects and as beings who are there to serve the desire and well-being of men and society. In part, it results from the belief that women and girls belong to realm of the household and the age-old quest of society to control or subjugate the body and life of women.\xa0'], ['While in many instances these acts of violence and abuses don’t\nstop women and young girls from going about their lives, in other cases these\nacts may interrupt the lives of the victims or lead to bodily damage and\npsychological trauma. Even when they don’t lead to such tragic consequences,\nsuch violence and abuse invariably results in loss of opportunities and other\nsocio-economic costs for victims.\xa0'], ['The cost of violence against and abuse of women and girls is not\nconfined to the immediate or direct victims. Such violence and abuse also make\nfamilies pay a heavy price. The social and economic cost of violence against\nand abuse of women and young girls is also huge for the broader society.\xa0'], ['Violence against women and young girls is contrary to all\nstandards that make a society great. It is against fundamental principles of\nhuman rights and freedoms. It is an attack against the inherent equality of\nwomen and young girls with men and young boys, hence quality of all human\nbeings.\xa0'], ['That is why the proscribing of violence against women and young\ngirls has assumed a prime place in the rights of women. That is why the Maputo\nProtocol on the rights of women in Africa provides for a wholistic approach for\nthe promotion and protection of the rights of women. The protection envisaged\nin this landmark instrument thus covers the treatment of women and young girls\nin the family, the right of women in marriage and at times of divorce, the\nright of women in the political, cultural and social economic spheres of public\nand private life and the treatment of women and young girls in conflict or\ncrisis situations.\xa0'], ['These instruments adopted within the framework of the AU dictate\nthat women and girls should be protected from violence and abuse. They should\nbe protected because like men and young boys it is their inherent right to lead\na life free from violence and abuse. They are entitled to a life free from such\nviolence and abuse by virtue of being human. Such is a life that society owes\nthem in the way it owes violent and abuse free life to others.\xa0'], ['But protecting women and young girls from violence and abuse is\nnot just a matter of right. It is not just something that is in accord with and\ndemanded by the virtues ideals to which every society strives to conform.\xa0'], ['Ensuring the freedom of women and girls from violence and abuse is\nalso good for the society. Not only that a society in which women and young\ngirls are afforded a violence free life is free from the costs associated with\nviolence against women. But it also makes gains from the additional production\nthat women and young girls deliver due to being free from the burdens of\nviolence and abuse.\xa0'], ['Boys should be told that it is completely uncool to mistreat women and girls. Girls should be taught that it is not ok for a woman or a girl to be abused or violated or mistreated by a man or a boy. '], ['Parents also bear major responsibilities. It is how parents treat\neach other that sets the example for boys and girls in the household. Men and\nboys should know that mistreating their spouses or partners or girlfriends is\nnot a measure strength. It is rather a sign of pathological weakness, a\nweakness that robes them off the strength that comes from maintaining a\nrelationship with women free from violence and abuse. Women should also not\ntolerate abusive behavior of their spouse. They should reject any form of\nmistreatment or abuse by their spouse.\xa0'], ['Religious leaders should teach believers that there is no\nscriptural basis for violence against and abuse of women and young girls. They\nshould indeed teach that it is not in accord with scriptural teaching for a\nhusband to abuse his wife or for a man to disrespect a woman.'], ['The state bears the most responsibility for ensuring the freedom\nof women and girls from violence and abuse. This it is expected to do by\nenacting laws and policies that ensure gender equality and punish\ndiscrimination and violence against women & young girls. The state is also\nexpected to put in place mechanisms that address the social and cultural\nconditions that nurture violent masculinity and discrimination against women\nand girls.\xa0'], ['No decent government should tolerate the abuse or violence of\nwomen and young girls whether at home or in public places. No decent leader\nshould give a pass or show leniency for anyone who abuses or violates a woman or\nyoung girl. No decent society should make a woman or a young girl feel that she\ndoes not deserve to be free from violence and abuse.\xa0'], ['There is no dignity or cultural good that any decent government or\na community or a society can protect by allowing the subjugation of women and\ngirls, by allowing their discrimination. There is no dignity or cultural good\nthat any decent government can protect by failing to punish abuse or violence\nagainst women and young girls wherever it happens and under any circumstances.\xa0'], ['That is why pregnant girls or teenage mothers should not be barred\nfrom attending their schools. That is why the prevention by any government of\nsuch girls or teenagers from going to their school is discriminatory and\nengages in an act that legitimizes the mistreatment of women and girls on\naccount of their gender.\xa0'], ['Indeed, if there is one major measure of a decent state or\ngovernment, if there is one key standard of measuring the coolness of a\ngovernment or its leaders it is by the extent to which they ensure respect for\nand protection of the freedom of women and young girls from violence and\nabuse.\xa0'], ['As we observe this season of 16 days of activism against violence against women, it is important to remember that our effort to rid our societies of the scourge of violence against women and girls should be a permanent one. We should continue this campaign year in year out mobilizing the useful resources that AU instruments such as the Maputo Protocol avail for sparing women and girls from this scourge. AS '], [' Editor’s Note: Solomon Ayele Dersso (PhD) is Chairperson of the African Commission on Human and Peoples’ Rights  and  Aya Chebbi is African Union Youth Envoy  ']]}, {'Date': 'November 26, 2019', 'Header': 'News: Ethiopia warns 8.5 m people will experience food crisis in Feb-June 2020', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba, November 26/2019 – The Government of Ethiopia has released the first Integrated Food Security Phase Classification (IPC) analysis report since the methodology was adopted in 2018. The Report that analyses the food security  situation in the country up to June 2020 was officially released during  the Disaster Risk Management Technical Working Group (DRM TWG) meeting  on 19 November 2019.'], ['It warns that for the period February to June 2020, 8.5 million  people will be in Crisis (IPC Phase 3) and above unless urgent action is taken to save lives, reduce food gaps, restore livelihoods and reduce malnutrition.'], ['Tadesse Bekele, Chairperson of the DRM TWG and Senior Advisor to the Commissioner of the National Disaster Risk Management Commission  (NDRMC) said the government was going to use the information in the  report to respond to the needs of the food insecure population. “The  government remains fully committed to addressing any gaps in saving  lives and livelihoods of the affected populations”, he said.'], ['Initially developed in 2004 by the Food and Agriculture Organization  of the United Nations (FAO)’s Food Security and Nutrition Analysis Unit,  IPC is a multi-partner initiative that governments, United Nations  Agencies, NGOs, civil society and other relevant actors use for  improving food security and nutrition analysis and  decision-making. The partners work together to determine the severity  and magnitude of acute and chronic food insecurity, and acute  malnutrition situations in a country, according to  internationally-recognized standards.'], ['The IPC draws from the strengths of existing food security, nutrition, and livelihood information systems and integrates them with  supporting tools for analysis and communication and seeks to answer four questions: how severe is the situation?; where are the areas that are food insecure?; who are the food insecure people?; and what are the key causes?'], ['The FAO Representative in Ethiopia, Ms. Fatouma Seid said, FAO will continue supporting the government and working with partners to generate regular, timely information as well as evidence-based analysis regarding the food security  situation in the country. “Credible information is the starting point of  any intervention. It pinpoints who are the most affected, where they  are, how they are affected, and what their needs are”, she added.'], ['The IPC is now the basis for early warning projections and will inform emergency and development food security interventions in Ethiopia. It is operating under the auspices of the Early Warning and Emergency  Response Directorate in the NDRMC. Over 20 organizations, including  regional authorities, the federal government partners, Non-Governmental  Organizations, and United Nations agencies, conducted this year’s  analysis.'], ['The IPC was introduced in Ethiopia under the framework of the European Union-funded  FAO project “Support the Government of Ethiopia to enhance food  security information, national social protection, and Disaster Risk  Management systems.”\xa0 The Project is also strengthening the Disaster  Risk Management system and the Productive Safety Net Program. AS/FAO']]}, {'Date': 'November 22, 2019', 'Header': 'News: Lagging behind in tech a trillion dollar mistake: Getahun Makuria', 'news_paragraphs': [['Bileh Jelan'], ['Addis Abeba, November 22/2019 – Getahun Makuria (Phd), Ethiopia’s minister of innovation and technology reckons at the Africa Fintech Summit held in Addis Abeba on Thursday November 21 that by lagging behind in technology and not harnessing it properly, “we are committing a trillion dollar mistake.”'], ['“Ethiopia stands 111th in world ranking in harnessing technology and innovation,” Dr. Getahun said, adding, “I always wonder why Africa, the 2nd  most populous region in the world  is lagging behind in technology. We are committing a trillion dollar mistake by not harnessing technology.”  '], ['The biannual Africa Fintech Summit is organized by Dedalus Global, an investment, communication and strategy advisory focusing on emerging market and emerging technologies. '], ['A testament to its importance, yesterday’s summit in Addis Abeba has attracted several senior government officials including Eng. Balcha Reba, Director General of Ethiopian Communication Authority,  Bizunesh Bekele, Advisor at the ministry of finance, Yodahe Zemichael, principal technical Advisor at the Prime Minister office, Eyob Gebre Eyesus, Vice Governor  of the National Bank of Ethiopia, Corporate Services, Dr Ephrem T. Lemango, Commissioner, Jobs Creation Commission and Dr Tesfachew  Tafere, representative from Ethiopian Investment commission. '], ['Discussing the government’s eagerness to improve Ethiopia’s performance in the future, Dr Getahun further said that “PM Abiy Ahmed hopes the coming generation will not think from a point of poverty, but from a point of prosperity. That is why the new party is called the Prosperity Party.” '], ['Several key sessions were held in the one day summit, including a discussion on mobile money and telecommunication. Speaking at this session Eng. Balcha Reba, Director General, Ethiopian Communication Authority (ECA) Said that Ethiopia was working “to help both Fintech and telecommunications sector. By the end of 2020 we will issue two telecommunication licenses,” he said.'], ['A reminder that the sector is still tangled in several challenges, Yemiru Chanyalew, CEO of Moneta technologies S.C./Amole, discussed the challenges he faced when navigating the Ethiopian market, from regulations to mindset and cultural attitudes toward technology, he also emphasized the importance of digitizing: “In order for mobile money and banking services to succeed in Ethiopia , we need more digitization.”'], ['A plenary session on Pan-African Fintech in the time of AFCFTA (African continental free trade area), saw a lengthy discussion in Fintech and its role in promoting Pan-Africanism discussed. Bizuneh Bekele, Advisor at the ministry of finance, Ethiopia highlighted the government’s attempt to digitize its institutions. “In Ethiopia every government institution is going through the process of digitization including financial institution.” '], ['Others see saw the huge potential in Ethiopia. Gerry Rasugu, Director/M4D Sub-Saharan Africa, GSMA was one of them. “We look at the mobile money market and we see huge opportunities in Ethiopia, Egypt and Nigeria, we think of these economies as sleeping giants.”'], ['\xa0A session on Inclusion, Identity and innovation discussed the need for a united identification system and how it might affect economies in a positive manner. Yodahe Zemichael, Principal Technical Advisor at the PM’s office described how the private sector was unable to contribute to this end due mainly to lack of proper policies. “In Ethiopia the government is both the biggest buyer and purchaser, the private sector is small.” But he stated that the the scene was “changing now and everyone will get a fairer share.” He also explained the need for a single identification system that could benefit both the government and the public.  “One of the sectors that needs digitization is the identification system, it needs to be built by the government,” he added “India has built a foundational identification system that saved the government billions of dollars in spending.” '], ['Joshua Oiagara of KCB group gave a keynote speech in which he made a comparison between Kenya and Ethiopia in harnessing technology and innovation. Unlike popular perceptions, he made a strong statement describing the Kenyan economy as not so different from Ethiopia. “Kenya is still pretty much a cash economy.” '], ['The highlight of the day was the speech scheduled to be delivered by  the Governor of the National Bank of Ethiopia, Dr. Yinager Dessie. However, Eyob Gebre Eyesus, Vice Governor/Corporate Service, delivered the speech instead. He discussed the reforms that the National bank was undergoing through, one of them being increasing the participation of fintech in the banking sector. “Banking business law was amended, there is a process to amend both mobile and internet banking regulations,” he said and discussed at length the role technology could play in Ethiopia’s next chapter. “The role of fintech should be to awaken this sleeping giant.” '], ['Throughout the summit, several startups have showcased their works to introduce their use of technologies and attract investment. The pitches were competing on a reward of 2000 USD, which went to the local entrepreneur Natnael Melaku Kokeb, Co-founder/ Head of Business Development of AXIOM financial technologies. AS']]}, {'Date': 'November 20, 2019', 'Header': 'Analysis: With 7000 patients on waiting list Ethiopia’s Cardiac Center fights to stay open', 'news_paragraphs': [['Etenesh\xa0Abera'], ['Addis Abeba November 20/2019 – ‘’Before the surgery I couldn’t play with my friends, I couldn’t run and I my heart would feel tired. Now I can run and play with my friends. I am very happy ‘’ Afomiya, 5, says. Tigest Bezawork, Afomiya’s mother, told Addis Standard she worries a lot about the center’s problems right now. ‘’I knew my daughter had a cardiac problem from age one. She had the surgery after waiting three long years last year. I am very grateful for the free service we got from the center. The change in my daughter is incredible. Before the surgery she didn’t play like she wanted to since she would get tired quickly, her appetite was very low and her physical growth was also limited; she was very thin.”\xa0 Tigest says she was distressed to hear about the center’s financial crisis. “I beg all Ethiopian citizens and the Ethiopian government to help this very important health center.” she says.\xa0'], ['Established in 1992 inside Zewditu Memorial Hospital the Cardiac Center – Ethiopia is now located inside Tikur Anbessa Specialized Hospital (TASH) here in  Addis Abeba. It has a new building initiated by Dr. Belay Abegaz started functioning in 2009. '], ['Takele Yinabete who comes from Bahir Dar with his three year old son told Addis Standard that he was waiting for his son’s turn ever since he was referred here at the center from Bahir Dar in the infant age of his son . “I am here waiting for our turn on a follow up. I don’t know the exact time when the surgery will be done, but we will wait for that exact date. I heard that the cardiac center is going to stop functioning soon from lack of budget though. Children are the future hope of our country and I urge everybody to help the center. From my experience, children don’t make their pain known. Everybody should help the center according to their capacity; even contributing one birr with their mobile. “'], ['Hiruy Ali Endries is the Administration and Finance head of the Cardiac Center. He puts the center’s financial woes as stemming from the ever increasing price of medical inputs and the high turnover of skilled man power, who, Hiruy says, are being paid half of the market salary.\xa0'], ['“Before this center was established here, we had to send our patients abroad” says Hiruy recalling more than 2600 patients were sent abroad for treatment. He characterizes this as unsustainable, but admits the center is not functioning up to its capacity. Of the 1500 surgeries the center is equipped to handle in a year, only 500 or so are being performed despite a modern building, up to date machines and a full team. “It’s heartbreaking to hear a patient has passed away, when we call them it’s their turn to get surgery,” says Hiruy adding, “there are more than 7000 people on our waiting list.”'], ['Asked about the center’s position on the sustainability of its income Hiruy said there was a campaign called “One birr for one citizen”. He credits that campaign for helping raise a substantial amount of money for the center, and a contribution from the Ethio-Saudi billionaire, Sheikh Mohammed Hussein Ali Al Amoudi’s, to the tune of 100,000,000 ETB (One hundred million birr) among major donations they got.  But he admits they lacked organization and capacity  to raise funds properly. But he is hopeful the campaign can take off a second time. “The campaign is still in people’s hearts,” says Hiruy adding they have to do more to public relations work.\xa0'], ['According to him, the long term plans of this project is now focused on building the center, fully equipping it with modern medical equipment, producing enough manpower and make it sustainable. The center has  achieved the first three objectives, but need to make it sustainable in order to provide its services uninterrupted. Previous works done by the former Ministers of Health, Dr. Tedros Adhanom and Dr. Kesateberhan Admasu and the current Minister Dr. Amir Aman in achieving the first three objectives of the project.\xa0'], ['The center was given land by the Addis Abeba city administration on which it has constructed two\xa0 three-storey buildings that it rents. Another building has been halted on the finishing stages of the construction due to budget constraints.\xa0 The center hopes the rent from these properties will cover 50% of their total expenditure.\xa0'], ['Hiruy says another way to make the center sustainable is to open such centers in regional cities to reduce the burden on this one center while also making the treatment more accessible. The center is also working with Universities to produce human power, adds Hiruy.\xa0'], ['But the center, after agreeing with Ethio telecom, has launched the old campaign “One birr for one citizen” anew where citizens can donate anything from 1 birr to 100 birr using text messaging. They have also started another campaign called “Lelebe” (for my heart), which allows the center to work as an agent when customers charge their mobile plans.\xa0'], ['Hiruy also calls on importers of Medical inputs to either provide the center with free material or sell their products at a discounted price to the center. Professionals working on public relations, website development and marketing are also called on to help the center bolster its public relations campaign. People working on social media are also called upon to help update the website and bring traffic to it. Hiruy also says they need contractors, finishing material providers and importers to work together and help the center finish the building which is expected to help in providing sustainable income. Hiruy says they are thankful to the artists working on their TV promotions and the television channels broadcasting them for free.'], ['To that end, Meseret Mebrate, a prominent actress has become the Cardiac Center’s Goodwill Ambassador and was recently featured in video to raise awareness about the center. AS']]}]
[{'Date': 'November 8, 2019', 'Header': 'Analysis: Ethiopian plant breeders turn to a nuclear technique to help Teff farmers adapt to climate change', 'news_paragraphs': [['Miklos Gaspar'], ['Bishoftu, November 08/2019 – Teff may be an emerging super-food in the global arena – but this Ethiopian cereal crop may not be ‘super’ enough to withstand the consequences of climate change: less rain and strong winds.'], ['Teff, a grass-like plant with tiny seeds, is the staple food for over\n 60 million people in Ethiopia and is the basis of traditional Ethiopian\n cuisine. As a naturally gluten-free grain, it is also gaining \npopularity among health-conscious customers in developed countries.'], ['While it is very adaptive to the different climatic and soil  conditions of the country, it has a low yield of only around 1.5 tons  per hectare, less than half the average yield of maize in Ethiopia. And  even this meager yield is under threat from decreasing rainfall and  unpredictable weather, researchers say.\xa0 \xa0\xa0'], ['Plant breeders at the Debre Zeit Agriculture Research Centerin Bishoftu, an hour southeast of Addis Abeba, are turning to nuclear technology for help. Over the past three years, with the support of the IAEA, in cooperation with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), they have been experimenting with using different doses of gamma irradiation to create new plant varieties with favorable traits: shorter stems that make it less susceptible to lodging, shorter maturity period, which would require less water, and higher yield and protein content.'], ['“Unlike for most other crops, which are grown in several countries,  for teff there is no global breeding community or international  experience on what may be successful means to achieve desired  varieties,” said Solomon Chanyalew, Director of the Center and a teff  researcher himself.'], ['In Ethiopia, teff is of utmost importance: it is grown on over 3 million hectares of land by 6 million smallholder farmers.'], ['Chanyalew and his team have treated seeds of different cultivars with radiation doses of between 200 gray and 2000 gray– or between 10 and 100 million times more than a typical chest X-ray  – to create the necessary genetic diversity to select for improved  lines. The radiation induces changes in the DNA of the seeds, and some  of the resulting lines will have favorable characteristics. Researchers  are looking for the “sweet spot” of radiation level – just strong enough  to change the characteristics of the plants but without killing them.  This alteration is akin to what happens in natural mutation or  traditional breeding selection and line crossing – but in a process that  is sped up.\xa0 Smaller seeds require much higher doses of radiation to  create changes in their DNA.'], ['They grow the new \nplants in tiny pots for three generations, and plant the fourth \ngeneration in an experimental plot of the institute. At this time, three\n years after the initial irradiation, variability starts to show. One \nline, which resulted from the irradiation of one of the cultivars with \n1600 gray shows the most promising characteristics: it is shorter and \nmatured 10 days earlier than the rest. It does not have a higher yield, \nbut this can probably be achieved by crossing the new line with a \ncultivated variety with high yields, Chanyalew explained. This will \nhappen next.\xa0 \xa0'], ['Developing a new plant variety is a slow and painstaking process – \nbecause researchers need to wait for the plants to grow and mature \nbefore seeing any results.\xa0 When a new variety has been developed using \nirradiation, it takes additional time to multiply enough seeds for \nlarge-scale planting by farmers. Even in the best case scenario, new \nvarieties can take around 6-8 years to develop, said Fatma Sarsu, a \nplant breeder and geneticist at the Joint FAO/IAEA Division of Nuclear \nTechniques in Food and Agriculture.\xa0 Mutation breeding typically \nrequires shorter time to develop improved varieties than traditional \nbreeding.'], ['Chanyalew hopes that after another couple of years of testing and \ncrossing with the cultivated variety, new varieties will be ready for \nfarmers to grow on their own fields in three to five years’ time.'], ['The IAEA, through its technical cooperation program, has been  supporting the institute for twenty years and the teff project for over  three years, he said. This has included the participation in short  courses by plant breeders and technicians, as well as an expert training  staff of the institute on site. The irradiation are performed at  another facility supported by the IAEA and FAO: the National Institute  for the Control and Elimination of Tsetse and Trypanosomiasis, which is  implementing a program to control tsetse flies, vectors of animal  trypanosomiasis virus, following the area-wide integrated pest  management approach, including the nuclear sterile insect technique as  the final component. AS'], ['__________________________________________//______________________________'], ['Editor’s note:  Miklos Gaspar  is from IAEA Office of Public Information and Communication. The article first appeared here.  ']]}, {'Date': 'November 7, 2019', 'Header': 'Alert: Ethiopia Desert Locust infestation worsens', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba, November 07/2019 – The Desert  Locust (Schistocerca gregaria) infestation in Ethiopia has deteriorated,  despite ongoing ground and aerial control operations.'], ['Together with  the Ethiopian Federal Ministry of Agriculture and the Desert Locust  Control Organization for Eastern Africa, Food and Agriculture  Organization of the United Nations (FAO) has called for immediate action  to control the infestation.'], ["Update: The ongoing invasion of desert locust has covered a total of 5,759 ha land in #Amhara regional state only. It is also damaging crops ready for harvest in 8 weredas and 23 kebeles in the region, while it's causing severe damage on 2, 456 ha land. https://t.co/EgNOLiW6VM pic.twitter.com/oEodYyVlth"], ['Hoppers have \nfledged, and an increasing number of small immature and mature swarms \nhave continued to devour crop and pasture fields in Tigray, Amhara, \nOromia, and Somali regional states. In Amhara, some farms have \nregistered nearly 100 percent loss of teff, a staple crop in Ethiopia. \nMoreover, eggs are hatching profusely and forming hopper bands in the \nSomali region, due to the heavy rainfall. The hopper bands recorded to \ndate have covered more than 351 km2 and are consuming at least 1 755 000\n MT of green vegetation per day.'], ['Fatouma Seid, the FAO Representative in Ethiopia said, “We need to act fast and mobilize the required resources urgently to scale up control and preventive measures.”'], ['So far, hopper\n bands have been controlled in only 21 000 hectares, out of the 48 000 \nhectares surveyed between August and October 2019 in 56 breeding Woredas\n (districts). Control measures have become difficult in areas affected \nby ongoing insecurity, particularly in Dire Dawa city.'], ['If not \ncontrolled, the Desert Locusts could continue moving within Ethiopia and\n invade northeast Kenya, the western lowlands and highlands of Eritrea, \nthe Red Sea coastal plains in Eritrea, and adjacent southern coastal \nareas in Sudan.'], ['In November and December 2019, FAO and the Government of Ethiopia will work to scale up control measures for fledgling hoppers, immature adults and newly arrived egg-laying swarms, particularly in the Somali region and other winter breeding areas. FAO/AS']]}, {'Date': 'October 31, 2019', 'Header': 'News: icipe launches initiative to benefit 100,000 youth in Ethiopia', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba, October 31/2019: The International Center of Insect Physiology and Ecology (icipe), in partnership with the Mastercard Foundation and Ethiopia Jobs Creation Commission (JCC), today launched a USD 55,601,322, five-year initiative that aims to see 100,000 young men and women in Ethiopia secure dignified and fulfilling work along honey and silk value chains. '], ['The More Young Entrepreneurs in Silk and Honey\n(MOYESH) project is aligned to ongoing efforts to alleviate youth unemployment\nor underemployment in Ethiopia and will\nbe implemented primarily in partnership with Ethiopia Jobs Creation Commission (JCC) and the Mastercard Foundation’s Young Africa Works in Ethiopia initiative. '], ['MOYESH is also positioned within icipe’s vision of science-led strategies towards holistic and inclusive socio-economic transformation across Africa. The project will capitalize on icipe’s extensive experience over the past 50 years in collaboration with national and international partners, which has generated extensive knowledge and built capacity for modern beekeeping and sericulture leading to the development and marketing of innovative high-quality products. Additionally, icipe research encompasses the often overlooked, but vital role of bees in boosting agricultural productivity through pollination of crop and wild plants and the\xa0 provision of essential ecosystem services. '], ['“Youth are a thriving part of the economy,” said Reeta\nRoy, President and CEO of Mastercard Foundation.\xa0“By creating\nopportunities in beekeeping and silkworm farming, thousands of young Ethiopian\nwomen and men will start on the path to becoming successful entrepreneurs and\ncontribute to their country’s continued economic growth.” \xa0'], ['“Having grown up in rural Ethiopia, I am fully aware of the transformative potential of agriculture as well as the reality of young people as an untapped resource,” added icipe\xa0Director General, Segenet Kelemu, “icipe\xa0is delighted to use the Center’s immense research for development and science translation capacity to bring these two forces together for opportunities in Ethiopia, and indeed across Africa.” '], ['The MOYESH initiative will build on significant\nprogress made through the Young Entrepreneurs in Silk\nand Honey\n(YESH) project, implemented in Ethiopia by icipe and Mastercard\nFoundation between 2016 and 2019. The YESH\nproject spawned jobs for 12,500\nyoung men and women\nin the country through honey and silk enterprises. The initiative also established\nfunctional marketplaces for honey and beeswax, and served as a platform for icipe to lead the development of a\nNational Sericulture Development Strategy, at the request of the Ministry of\nAgriculture of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia.'], ['“The YESH project has\nalready transformed the livelihoods of thousands of unemployed youth by\ngenerating decent jobs and income through beekeeping and silk production\nbusinesses. The ability to expand this program into more regions, through Young\nAfrica Works in Ethiopia, holds significant potential for the young people, and\nother value chain actors in Ethiopia,” noted Alemayehu Konde Koira, Country\nHead, Ethiopia, at the Mastercard Foundation.'], ['MOYESH will be implemented across the country in Amhara, Oromia, Tigray, and Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples regions, with the goal of scaling up technologies and good practices to other areas. The project will have the following key thrusts that will: (i) integrate beekeeping and sericulture enterprises around protected forest, and community-based watersheds; (ii) enable young people to access financial, markets and information services; (iii) build and strengthen the technical, entrepreneurship, soft, and financial literacy skills of the youth, partners and local institutions; (iv) establish strong private-public partnerships; (v) involve youth in value addition activities of honey and silk products; and (vi) generate evidence-based knowledge to support further scaling and adoption. AS']]}, {'Date': 'October 30, 2019', 'Header': 'News: Desert Locusts threaten agricultural production in Ethiopia', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba, October 30/2019 – The Federal Ministry of Agriculture  (MOA), Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and  the Desert Locust Control Organization for Eastern Africa (DLCO-EA)  have called for immediate action to control a new Desert Locust  (Schistocerca gregaria) infestation in the country. Sani Redi,  Agriculture Sector State Minister, Ministry of Agriculture called on  development partners to support the government’s efforts to control the  invasion.'], ['“The desert locust invasion is likely to cause incalculable green vegetation loss,”  he underscored. Although we have committed resources, we need  substantial support to undertake massive control and preventive  measures.”'], ['Migrating from Yemen through Djibouti and Somaliland, Desert Locust swarms entered Ethiopia  and settled in the breeding sites in Afar, Amhara, Oromia, Somali and Tigray regions. The swarms have produced hopper bands that have covered more  than 174 square kilometer (in 56 Woredas and 1 085 kebeles) and are  consuming approximately 8700 metric tons of green vegetation every day.  It is estimated that about 30 million hoppers can land on one-kilometer  square area.'], ['The moist soils due to the continued rainfall in the breeding sites created a conducive environment for Desert Locusts  to multiply. Huge hopper populations are bred and are currently  fledging into young adults and making swarms of varying sizes. “The  swarms are likely to invade wider areas and cause significant crop,  pasture and forest cover losses in eastern Ethiopia,”  warned\xa0 Zebdewos Salato, Director of Plant Protection in the MoA. To  date, Desert Locust hopper bands have covered 17 370 out of the 28 671  hectares surveyed between July and September 2019.'], ['Although the government is making efforts to contain the potential \ninvasion of areas outside the breeding sites, its capacity to control \nthe desert locust hopper bands in the breeding sites is limited. So far,\n it has controlled hopper bands on 6 455 hectares only.'], ['The Desert Locust infestation happened this time when Ethiopia is dealing with the impacts of previous and ongoing drought. Currently other insect pests such as the fall armyworm  and diseases such as wheat rusts are also serious impediments to  agricultural production and food and nutrition security. The latest  reports indicate that about 7.8 million people in the country require food assistance.  This number is likely to increase if the fledgling Desert Locust swarms  continue infesting more areas and causing damage to crops and natural  vegetation.'], ['“Urgent control operations are required to manage the situation and  protect the livelihood of the population in eastern Ethiopia and  possibly the neighboring countries,” said Fatouma Seid, FAO  Representative in Ethiopia. She added that FAO is  working with the Ministry of the Agriculture, the DLCOEA and other  stakeholders to undertake hopper control measures. '], ['FAO operates a Desert Locust Information Service  that receives and analyzes data from locust-prone countries to assess  the current locust situation. It also provides forecasts and issues,  warnings and alerts to keep the global community informed of locust  developments and threats. '], ['Dr Stephen W. Njoka, OGW, Director Desert Locust Control Organization\n for Eastern Africa (DLCO – EA) said the Organization was coordinating \nregional efforts, including monitoring, providing early warning and \nundertaking control actions to manage the invasion. He warned that the \nDesert Locust situation would turn 2019 into a disaster year unless it \nis curtailed. “We call for concerted efforts of all stakeholders to \nprevent a disaster from happening,” he said. '], ['In July 2019, FAO warned that Desert Locust summer breeding, amplified by heavy rains, could pose a serious threat to agricultural production in Yemen, Sudan, Eritrea, parts of Ethiopia and northern Somalia. The Organization called on all countries to monitor the field conditions by mounting regular ground surveys and undertaking the necessary control measures whenever infestations were detected. FAO/AS']]}, {'Date': 'October 26, 2019', 'Header': 'NEWS: SOCIAL ENTERPRISE WORLD FORUM (SEWF) 2019 CONCLUDES IN ADDIS ABEBA', 'news_paragraphs': [['Etenesh\xa0Abera'], ['Addis Abeba, October 26, 2019 – The Social Enterprise World Forum (SEWF) 2019 held for the past week was concluded yesterday October 25th, 2019. The event co-hosted by Social Enterprise Ethiopia and the British Council, was held inside the premises of the United Nations Economic Commision for Africa (UNECA) in Addis Abeba.'], ['Ethiopia was announced as host for this year’s SEWF at the 11th edition held in Edinburgh, Scotland when it became the first developing country to get the chance.\xa0'], ['The event in Addis Abeba was attended by more than 1200 participants from 50 countries with 50% women speakers, a first for the forum. A total of 50% of the speakers were also from Africa with 25% from Ethiopia alone, according to Kibret Abebe, one of the founders of Social Enterprise Ethiopia and its current president.\xa0'], ['The event held throughout the week starting off with a welcome ceremony on Sunday the 20th of October also included a Youth Week, Policy Forum, African Cultural Evening and Education and Academic Symposium held on the sidelines.\xa0'], ['A social enterprise is “an organization that applies commercial strategies to maximize improvements in financial, social and environmental well-being-this may include maximizing social impact alongside profits for external shareholders”. '], ['It is estimated that there are about 55,000 such social enterprises in Ethiopia according to a British Council research. Among these is Tebita Ambulance, the first private ambulance service founded by Social Enterprise Ethiopia current president Kibret Abebe.\xa0'], ['Other social enterprises highlighted throughout the week include Whiz-Kids Workshop-makers of a popular children’s show called Tsehay Loves Learning, Temsalet Kitchen-a health conscious eatery that provides jobs for disadvantaged women and Teki Paper Bags-an operation that hires deaf people to make paper bags.\xa0'], ['The 13 edition of SEWF in 2020 will be held in Canada by CommonGoodSolutions.\xa0AS']]}]
[{'Date': 'October 24, 2019', 'Header': 'News: Food markets near Ethiopia’s poor provide too little diversity at too high a price: new study', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba, October 24/2019 – The rural poor in Ethiopia tend to live near lower-quality  markets that sell fewer food groups at high prices, adversely impacting the health of children in these communities, a new study from researchers at the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI)  has found. '], ['The findings, drawn from data from rural Ethiopia, mark the  first attempt to examine how rural markets vary in their diversity,  competitiveness, frequency, and  food affordability, and how these characteristics are associated with  children’s diets.'], ['“Despite\n some improvements in recent years, the quality of child diets in rural \nEthiopia is still shockingly poor, especially in our survey areas where \nmost children just eat basic staples and\n not much else,” said IFPRI’s senior researcher\nDerek Headey,\n co-author of the study. “But the touted solution to this problem has \nalways been farm-level diversification, with little policy focus or \nresearch on\n the physical markets where even poor people obtain most of their \nnon-staple foods. That’s where our study came in.”\xa0\n'], ['The study, “Rural Food Markets and Child Nutrition,” co-authored by IFPRI’s\nDerek Headey and\xa0Kalle Hirvonen; Cornell University’s John Hoddinott;\n and Lafayette College’s David Stifel, was published in the October 2019 edition of the\nAmerican Journal of Agricultural Economics. It used an innovative longitudinal survey of both households and food markets in some of the poorest areas of rural Ethiopia.\n'], ['The\n researchers used these data to assess which of the seven food groups \nrecommended by the World Health Organization (WHO 2008) were consumed by\n young children, and then assessed whether local\n food markets sold these foods and at what cost. '], ['\n“We found a \nstatistically significant association between the number of non-staple \nfood groups available in the market and children’s consumption of \nnon-staple food groups, and this association exists after controlling\n for a wide range of factors,” Hirvonen said. '], ['\nMoving from three \nnon-staple food groups in the market to six increases the likelihood of \nconsumption of any non-staple food group by 10.5 percentage points. Of \nthe children in the sample, 54% consumed non-staple\n foods in the previous day; this translates into a 19% increase in the \nlikelihood of a child consuming a non-staple food group.'], ['\nThese associations are \nsimilar in magnitude to those between household production diversity and\n dietary diversity. The researchers also found that household and \ncommunity production diversity is especially important\n for some products, particularly dairy, but also fruits and vegetables. '], ['The study also revealed an association between \nthe number of traders selling food and consumption of non-staple foods; \nin markets with more than twenty food sellers, the likelihood that a \nchild consumes a non-staple food group rises by\n about 12 percentage points. '], ['\nWhile rural Ethiopia is \nagriculturally diverse, the study sites are all situated in poor, \nfood-insecure localities where even the relatively better off are poor \nin absolute terms. Prices for non-staple foods in almost\n all survey sites were high: on an average, the cost of a calorie from a\n non-staple food is 12 times higher than a calorie from the cheapest \nstaple. “Those findings suggest that poverty and high prices are major \nconstraints on the ability of markets to improve\n rural diets,” says Stifel.'], ['\n“Our results make us \ncautious about the likely effects of farm-level diversification programs\n because access to healthy foods is not the only problem. We do, \nhowever, find some indirect evidence that dairy and fruit\n and vegetable promotion might improve children’s consumption of these \nproducts specifically,”\nHoddinott said.\n “And some relatively nutritious foods, such as legumes, nuts, and some \nfruits and vegetables, are relatively affordable, and perhaps \nunderappreciated\n by parents with limited nutritional knowledge.”'], ['Ultimately, the findings  suggest that sizeable improvements in rural diets depend on improved  access to high-quality markets that deliver a wide array of healthy  foods at affordable prices. “The agricultural foundations  of better rural markets likely stem not from increased specialization  at the farm level but from diversification at the food system level,  resulting in even greater dependence on markets for both agricultural  sales and food purchases in the long run,” Headey  said. “How best to accelerate the development of higher quality rural  food markets is a critically important area for future  research.” www.ifpri.org. \xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0 ']]}, {'Date': 'October 15, 2019', 'Header': 'Exclusive: ‘Africa’s voice was struggling to be heard”: Nicolas Pompigne-Mognard', 'news_paragraphs': [['Ephream Sileshi'], ['Addis Abeba October 15/2019 – APO Group is the largest media relations’ consulting company in Africa with clients ranging from Silicon Valley giants like Facebook and Microsoft to technology multinationals like Orange and Nokia to Fortune 500 management consulting firms like PwC and Ernst & Young. Headquartered in the city of Lausanne, the Group operates primarily in Africa and, to some level, the Middle East consulting firms on their media strategies and providing them with its press release distribution platform. The ‘Group’ in the name is a reference to APO Communications, APO Consulting and APO Technologies, the three divisions that make up APO Group.'], ['It was also founded and is chaired and 100% owned by one man – Nicolas Pompigne-Mognard.'], ['Nicolas Pompigne-Mognard  is a 43 year old married father of 3 with both French and Gabonese nationalities who grew up in the Southwest of France. He studied law there and went on to become a journalist for a regional publication. But it wasn’t until his job as a European correspondent for Gabonews that his focus on Africa and its media environment started taking shape. Working at Gabonews, he was responsible for European news related to Africa. Statements from European leaders, cultural exchanges, sports, etc. that concerned Africa, he had to know and for that he was in contact with diplomatic missions, governments and institutions all over the continent. He also had to collect as many press releases as possible from these bodies and through that process realized that it was extremely difficult to get European news about Africa including press releases from European governments and institutions on Africa. But he then found getting press releases of African governments and institutions was even harder to access by a long shot.'], ['Pompigne-Mognard  says that was when he realized the voice of Africa was ‘struggling to be heard’. ‘There were statements, there were releases’ adds Pompigne- Mognard, but they never reach the target audience. Soon after he had a series of meetings with the then president of the African Development Bank, Donald Kaberuka. In one of those meetings Mr. Kaberuka told him there was good news in Africa but no one was listening and added that the dissemination of economic information about Africa would contribute to the actual growth of the continent because it encourages companies and investors to think about investing in Africa.'], ['Pompigne- Mognard claims that was a very significant moment in his career.\xa0 He set out to solve the problem of African misrepresentation in the media after that. He contacted all major African organizations and asked them to send him their press releases. It took a few months after that, but he started getting the press releases albeit in all sorts of different formats. His first job, therefore, was to standardize these press releases he was getting and making them available. It didn’t earn him money during the first stages and he claims that he didn’t start it as a way of making money. In fact, he had no plans to start any sort of company or become an entrepreneur then. He then made a deal to provide his feed of press releases to Bloomberg Terminal, and then to Dow-Jones’ Factiva, LexisNexis and Thomson Reuters all big names in news aggregation and with that APO was born.'], ['Pompigne- Mognard\xa0 has been the CEO of APO until December of 2018 when he stepped down and hired Lionel Reina, a former executive in Orange Business Services. But he is still 100% owner of the company he founded and its chairman. He was asked about these unusual arrangements for such a business to business focused large company by Addis Standard \xa0in an exclusive interview held in Addis Abeba. He claims that he is not a ‘finance guy’ and that his company’s growth is purely organic. Owning 100% of it stems from the fact that he started the company with money he saved up and didn’t borrow anything from family or banks. In fact, he says APO has zero debt today and that is because the growth of his company is directly tied to the value he is adding to his clients businesses and not to any perception of returns it would have in the future. He says this is the best way to do business as opposed to the credit and debt run mechanism seen all over the world.'], ['He attributes his success to hard work and ‘some luck’. While the hard work part is evident in the 60% growth his company registered just last year, the luck part, Pompigne-Mognard claims, is largely Africa itself and the opportunities available if one is willing to do the work to take advantage of it.\xa0 '], ['Pompigne- Mognard significantly improved his English after he realized that he could do business with only about half of Africa speaking just French. He also encourages Africans to speak at least these two languages as ‘we are lucky to live in a continent where speaking two languages allows you to do business with at least 80% of the countries’.'], ['A fan of the Castel Winery produced ‘Rift Valley’ wines in Ethiopia; Pompigne-Mognard now works mostly on consulting some of the largest clients of APO Group and setting up a fund. He also spoke of his interest in joining the agriculture sector in Africa, as well as the local art industry. The self-characterized ‘simple man’ has found success in following his own way of doing business and looks set to repeat it in his ventures to come; a good lesson for African and global entrepreneurs alike. AS']]}, {'Date': 'October 9, 2019', 'Header': 'NEws: Heavy rains cause  flooding  in  Somali, Gambella regions', 'news_paragraphs': [[' Addis Abeba, Oct. 09/2019 –Areas  along  the  Baro  River  bed  flooded  following  heavy  rains,  353 households displaced On 2 October, heavy rainfall in Gambella Town has led to the overflow of Baro River, flooding areas  along  the  river  bed.  Heavy  rains  and  flooding  are  common  during  the  major  rainy season (July-August), but it is not a common occurrence during the months of September and October. '], ['The flood was reportedly more severe compared to previous years. The  Gambella Region  Disaster  Prevention,  Preparedness  and  Food  Security  Agency,  in collaboration with international partners, conducted an assessment on 3 October to identify humanitarian  needs.  '], ['According  to  the  assessment  team,  at  least  353  households  (1,405 people) were displaced across five kebeles, and their houses were fully flooded, and their livelihoods  destroyed.  The  Gambella  Town  Administration  requested  the  support  of partners, to provide two-months food rations and non-food items for the displaced people, as well as for the sustainable rehabilitation of the affected population.'], ['2,285  households  affected  and  853 households displaced  following floods in Somali region '], ['Heavy rains in parts of Somali region and neighboring highlands caused flooding in Kalafo, Mustahil and Bercano woredas (Shabelle zone); Dolo Ado woreda in Liban zone and Cherati woredain  Afder  zone. Flash  floods  also occurred  in Babile(Fafanzone)  and Elweyne (Nogob zone). Preliminary reports indicate that 2,285 households (13,710 people) were affected and 853 households  displaced.  The  majority  of  the  displaced  (800  households)  are  in  Dolo  Ado Town,  while  the  remaining  53  households  are  in  Cherati  Town.  '], ['Homes  were  destroyed;1,041 hectares of cropland flooded and 987 heads of livestock killed from the floods. The Somali Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Bureau (DPPB) has already dispatched four  trucks  of  food  and  non-food  items  to  Shabelle  zone,  including 600  quintalsofrice, ES/NFIsfor  500 households, 600  quintalsof  maize and  20  bundles  of  clothing.  Urgent additional supplies are in need particularly in the ES/NFI, Food and WaSH sectors. Meanwhile,  the Shabelle  River  level  had  reached  a  high  of  11.5  meters  as  of  7 October, pausing a risk of further flooding in the lower Shabelle areas; requiring swifter  prevention and preparedness measures. '], ['The Regional DPPB is preparing to establish an Emergency Operation  Center  (EOC)  in  Gode  to  coordinate  the  flood  prevention  and  preparedness efforts for the southern zones; while a zonal-level Flood Taskforce will be reactivated in Dolo Ado. The  regional  taskforce in  Jijiga will  oversee  overall  coordination  and  resource mobilization. UNOCHA ']]}, {'Date': 'October 7, 2019', 'Header': 'News: Lowland wheat initiative kicks off in Ethiopia', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba, October 07/2019 – The Ministry of Agriculture (MoA), in collaboration with the  Ethiopian Institute of Agricultural Research (EIAR), the Ethiopian Agriculture Transformation Agency (ATA), the Ethiopian Agricultural Research Council Secretariat (EARCS), regional bureaus of agriculture,  and other stakeholders has recently launched an initiative to  produce wheat in three lowland basins of the country. This initiative is being implemented in Awash (Oromia and Afar regions), Wabeshebelle (Somali  Region), and Omo (Southern Nations, Nationalities and Peoples Region (SNNPR) basins, locations where wheat production was not previously  practiced.'], ['Lowland wheat production was successfully demonstrated in Awash and  Omo basins in 2018/2019 (2011 E.C.). In the new Ethiopian year, the  initiative will be demonstrated on 1,500 hectares along the Awash basin,  3,200 hectares along the Wabeshebelle basin, and on 660 hectares along  the Omo basin.  Additionally, there is a plan to move to large scale production in Awash and Wabeshebelle basins on more than 32,000 and  3,200 hectares, respectively. '], ['“The implementation of the lowland wheat project will contribute to  achieving Ethiopia’s import substitution efforts in the long term, and  will also have an immediate positive impact on improving the livelihoods  of the farmers and pastoralists residing in the implementation areas,”  Dr Kebere Bezaweletaw, ATA Senior Project Officer, Crop Value Chain, commenting on the significance of the lowland wheat initiative to  ensuring food self-sufficiency and improving the lives and livelihoods  of Ethiopian smallholders.  '], ['The ATA and the EARCS are jointly engaged in demonstration of lowland  wheat along the Omo basin.  They have already mobilized the required  agricultural inputs and provided training and technical support. The MoA  will engage in controlling birds that destroy the wheat farm during  plantation and harvesting periods, while EIAR will provide cross-cutting  technical support to the initiative in all three basins in addition to  the lowland wheat project it runs in the Awash basin.  Both smallholder and commercial farmers in the targeted regions have demonstrated their  willingness to be involved in the project.'], ['At full implementation, the lowland wheat initiative will cover more \nthan 132,000 hectares of land across the three basins and is expected to\n produce nearly 6 million quintals of wheat along with more than 100,000\n quintals of improved wheat seeds. Combined with the existing support to\n increase production and productivity in the Ethiopian highlands, this \nlowland wheat project will make significant contributions towards \nachieving Ethiopia’s plan to gradually replace importation as laid out \nin the country’s import substitution strategy. '], ['For close to half a century, Ethiopia has been importing wheat to  provide for local consumption, with the quantity of imported wheat  gradually increasing to meet the growing local demand. All the while,  the need for ensuring food sustainability without importation had  lingered in the minds of the Ethiopian agricultural leadership  community. With the introduction of the lowland wheat initiative, import  substitution and sustainability of local supplies will soon be  achieved. ATA']]}, {'Date': 'October 2, 2019', 'Header': 'Analysis: Helping Ethiopian farmers adapt to drought and flooding', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba, October 02/2019 – Nestled  deep in Ethiopia’s highlands, in the Amhara region, Habru Woreda some 500 km from the country’s capital Addis Abeba, the small village of  Berebeyu is grappling with the realities of climate change, with  hundreds of its inhabitants reeling from land losses and poor harvests,  or no harvests at all.'], ['Berebeyu\n lies at the confluence of tributary rivers that flow from the adjacent \nmountain. The village is highly vulnerable to droughts, seasonal \nflooding, and mudslides. In 2011 a mudslide killed at least five people \nand forced dozens from their homes.'], ['Small\n herds of roaming camels, donkeys, goats, sheep and cows trample through\n the village. Dead trees, gullies, bare soils and rocks exposed by flood\n waters are a typical sight in Berebeyu, which for generations has been \nhome to a minority Muslim community of around 500 household.'], ['The\n rapidly disappearing arable land and the trees scattered across the \nmountain face are a bittersweet reminder of what they have lost, and \nalso a strong warning of what is to come.'], ['A\n prolonged drought has seen many residents migrating abroad to seek \nalternative livelihood opportunities. Ironically, this is not always an \neffective coping strategy, as many are deported and forced to return to \nthe same harsh environment that spurred their migration.'], ['“It’s\n very difficult to live here; the drought is increasing in this area,” \nsays 40-year-old Ahmed Shifare. He explains that many young men have \nfled to the Gulf countries, including his 16-year-old son. “For the \nolder generation, even though the threats of drought are killing us, we \nhave no other land to go to. Each household has at least one family \nmember who has migrated to the Middle East; this is our way of coping \nwith the drought,” he states.'], ['Migration  is a common adaptation strategy in Berebeyu. Older residents have long  leaned on seasonal migration to complement farming. During the drought  of 1984, many elders, including Shifare’s family sought employment in  the city and, just like contemporary migrants they undertook all types  of work, returning home to restart their farms after the drought. But  Shifare says, “Following consecutive droughts in recent years, the scale  of migration is nothing I have seen before; everyone is going without  knowing if they will return.”'], ['Yet,\n Berebeyu has demonstrated incredible resilience. Its residents have \nbeen living in the village for centuries overcoming many different \nchallenges. But climate change and land degradation is proving to be \nmore difficult than anything they have experienced before. Arable land \nhas become a scarce resource. Each household is entitled to half a \nhectare for agricultural purposes, but demand has outstripped supply to \nthe extent that even steep slopes are now being ploughed. The result has\n been an erosion of fertile soils which, combined with perennial \ndroughts, has adversely affected crop production.'], ['Eighty-year-old\n Sheik Yimam Shikuru, who lost his farm to erosion says, “All my \nchildren left me because my farm does not produce anything anymore — \nthey went to look for better opportunities. It’s getting hot here, and \nwhen it rains, the water brings rocks and debris to my farm, killing all\n my crops.”'], ['Shikuru has \nbeen living in Berebeyu for his whole life and the expression on his \ntired face clearly shows that he has seen better days. Four of Shikuru’s\n children migrated abroad to look for work, yet so far they have not \nbeen able to secure regular employment due to their inability to obtain \nwork permits and are unable to help their father. Now older, more \nvulnerable and with no other livelihood opportunities, Shikuru is \nentirely dependent on his small, rocky and degraded farm.'], ['While\n climate change is not the only push factor for migration out of the \nvillage, it acts as a ‘threat multiplier,’ worsening existing \ninsecurities.'], ['“I am \nlandless, the land I am currently using is rented to me and it is very \nsmall. Now imagine what the drought will do?” says Ayalew Asifaw, a \n33-year-old father. “If the land was big, I would grow a greater variety\n and quantity of crops — that way I could mitigate some losses, but with\n the size of my farm when the drought comes, what few crops I have are \nlost. If I get a chance today, I will leave because I will not sit and \nwatch the drought destroy my family.”'], ['Asifaw\n is no stranger to irregular migration. On three occasions he has sought\n to reach Saudi Arabia. He failed on the first two attempts, while \nduring the third he managed to stay only for 18 days before being \narrested by Saudi authorities and deported back to Ethiopia. It is now \ntwo years since he has been back in Berebeyu, but the prospect of \nstaying permanently is fading. He has not ruled out the possibility of \nattempting to migrate a fourth time, despite the high cost involved and \nhis increasing vulnerability upon each return.'], ['Usmani\n Endris, a 29-year-old father of two, echoes the same frustrations, \nadding, “Land is limited here and this limited land is not productive \nbecause of climate change.” Endris is a migrant returnee; he worked in \nSaudi Arabia for a year prior to being deported in 2016. Since his \nreturn, he has twice sought to reach Saudi Arabia again through Bosaso \nin Somalia and Obock in Djibouti but was unsuccessful on both occasions.'], ['The\n residents of Berebeyu are known to be positive and light-hearted people\n but concerns about their future survival in the face of climate change \nare increasingly dominating their conversations. But a seed of hope was \nplanted in May 2019 when the International Organization for Migration \n(IOM), in collaboration with a local implementing partner Ethiopian \nEvangelical Church Mekanysus Development and Social Service Commission, \njoined hands with the community to launch a project that is seeking to \nstem the tide of environmental degradation. The project aims to \nrehabilitate the environment while supporting the reintegration of \nmigrant returnees by reducing land degradation in selected watershed \nareas through afforestation and the integration of fruit tree \ncultivation to support livelihoods.'], ['The\n project is taking place under the European Union(EU)-IOM Joint \nInitiative for Migrant Protection and Reintegration (the Joint \nInitiative) which facilitates safe, orderly, regular and responsible \nmigration management through the development of rights-based and \ndevelopment-focused procedures and processes on protection and \nsustainable reintegration. The Joint Initiative, backed by the EU Trust \nFund, has been set up in close cooperation with 26 African States.'], ['Through\n the project, community members along with returnees will develop 50 \nhectares, which they will use to harvest rainwater and trap silt \nsediments; which in turn will improve soil fertility. Trees and grasses \nwill be planted to restore lost vegetation cover. It is envisaged that \ncommunity members and returnees will generate income from the sale of \nseedlings. In four years, it is expected that they will start selling \nthe fruits. In addition, over 240 community members will participate in \n‘community conversations’ on topics related to migration and land \ndegradation.'], ['To\n mitigate the effects of drought, water conservation facilities will be \nconstructed to harvest rainwater at the foot of the mountain overlooking\n the village, where water usually races down. Instead of the water \nwasted as runoff, it will be collected, stored and used for watering the\n nursery and crops, especially during the dry season. Trapping the \nrunoff will further reduce the risk of flooding and land degradation.'], ['Speaking\n during a recent focus group meeting, the villagers expressed \nexcitement, especially the prospect of beating drought and earning an \nincome from selling fruits.'], ['Abdu\n Hassen, a resident, said, “We know what to do with the land, we are \nexperienced farmers but without water, we cannot do anything. All we \nneed is water and land to cultivate, and if the degraded land can be \nuseful again, that will bring joy to this village.”'], ['Another hopeful resident, Hassen Mohamed lauded the project saying, “This is one step to defeating climate change.”'], ['………………………'], ['This\n story was written by the IOM Migration, Environment and Climate Change \n(MECC) team in the Regional Office for East and Horn of Africa: Lisa Lim\n Ah Ken and Ivyne Mabaso, with support from the IOM Ethiopia country \noffice and MECC Headquarters in Geneva.']]}]
[{'Date': 'September 24, 2019', 'Header': 'Opinion: How Asian values can transform Ethiopia’s labor force', 'news_paragraphs': [['Tsegab Kebebew, For Addis Standard'], ['As Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed’s recent official visits to Korea and Japan have demonstrated, Ethiopia and Asian countries have continued to strengthen their historic and longstanding relations. In the past couple of decades these historic ties have transformed into concrete result-oriented cooperative relations based on mutual benefit.\xa0 Asia is a crucial continent for Ethiopia to attract not only Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) and related technology transfer, but also significant lessons in their socio-economic development.'], ['As pundits point out this is the Asian century.\nOver the past four decades, Asians have gained the greatest share of total\nglobal economic growth– a trend driven by the rise of manufacturing in Asia.\nBillions of Asians growing up in the past two decades have experienced\ngeopolitical stability, rapidly expanding prosperity and surging national\npride. Asia has several of the world’s largest economies, most of the world’s\nforeign-exchange reserves, many of the largest banks and industrial and\ntechnology companies and most of the world’s biggest armies. Asia also accounts\nfor 60 per cent of the world’s population.\xa0[i]'], ['Much has been said about the incredible socio-economic transformation or the “miracle”’ that has been witnessed in Asia in the past 40 plus years. Much has also been said about the lessons that countries such as Ethiopia should take. Most of the discussion has been centered on their focus on export-oriented industrialization, state interventionism on markets and the strong state which ensured political stability for the thriving of economic growth.\xa0 '], ['In this article, I wish to focus on the “Asian values” or the culture of these Asian countries which has been compatible with industrialization because it valued stability, hard work, discipline, and loyalty and respect towards authority figures.'], ['Although the concept of Asian values seem to be unique to Asian countries, some of the values are shared with Ethiopians. The communal as opposed to individualistic traits of their societies, high importance given to filial piety, in particular the care given to aged parents, and high values attached to education are also seen as common traits amongst Ethiopians. Though it requires more research, I think we have not capitalized on these values, nor learnt new ones to transform our society, for instance, in the area of our work ethics and addressing the issue of low levels of productivity in Ethiopia. In a Policy Research Working Paper published by the World Bank in August 2019, Ethiopia’s competitiveness and attractiveness for investment is said to be affected by the low productivity of its firms in spite of its labor cost advantages.[ii]'], ['According to the study’s conclusions, the prospects for further industrialization in Ethiopia seem to critically depend on achieving higher productivity. Poor management, particularly in the area of labor, is mentioned as a key factor that may be holding Ethiopian firms back. The study further suggests that there is scarce evidence on how labor management can be improved. It says, “to develop this evidence, we need systematic experimentation with different interventions targeting how workers are selected, trained, incentivized, and retained.”'], ['Taking the conclusions as fair, I would humbly\nsubmit to look into the Asian experience for solutions. Not that the Asian\nexperience is a remedy to all our ills but would give us different\nperspectives. Comparative studies have shown that productivity, for instance in\nlight manufacturing, in countries such as China and Vietnam are as much as\ntwice or three times as countries like Ethiopia. Beyond the economic aspects, I\nbelieve the weave that holds their social fabric, strong values in education\nand discipline need to be studied.'], ['There are some quarters who explain the successes of Asian countries in relation to their value systems. “Asian Values”, which is generally conceived as a combination of education and self-cultivation, frugality and thrift, an ethic of hard work and labor, discipline, social harmony and group-responsibility – have played an important role in their socio-economic development.\xa0 They claim that these values, which show distinctive features of Confucianism (based on the teachings of the ancient Chinese philosopher), have played a role in influencing the cultural values which in turn has impacted their national psychology and identity. The traditional cultural values that influence the psyche of these nations include harmony, benevolence, righteousness, courtesy, wisdom, honesty, loyalty, and filial piety. [iii]'], ['Now,\nwhether there is a cause and effect relationship between culture and economic\ndevelopment has been debatable. There are those who say cultural\ntransformations of these countries happened because of economic development,\nwhich created societies in which people have to behave in more disciplined,\nrational and cooperative ways than in agrarian societies.\xa0 There are others who argue that if anything\nculture is an outcome, rather than a cause of economic development.'], ['Without\ngoing to the merits of both sides, what piques my interest is that these value\nsystems have worked for these societies. Whether they come from Confucius or\nnot, these values have ensured strict work ethics and regimens ensuring\nproductivity. A recent post on twitter by a renowned Ethiopian leader in\ninternational finance admires the culture of ethics, rule of law and discipline\nin Japan and suggests its institutions, leadership and capacity as main reasons\nwhy Japan is the third largest economy. '], ['These\nvalues can be learnt and I believe value systems and education go together. In\naddition to value systems, it is also important to note that investment in\neducation and skills has played an important role in the success of these\ncountries. It is said that Asians invest more resources in education — and the\nliteracy rate in these countries is much higher (almost 100% in Korea) — than\nis the case in many other cultures.[iv]'], ['Leadership\nis also a very important component when studying Asian societies. Strong\nleadership, sometimes authoritarian, has been able to define the futures of\nthese countries. Kishore Mahbubani, the Singaporean academic and former diplomat,\nattributes the success of Singapore to many reasons, one of which is the\nculture of meritocracy that was cultivated by the city-state. [v]'], ['I believe that leadership is required in Ethiopia to create a capable and efficient workforce. It is a fact that Ethiopia’s development plans in recent years have put heavy emphasis on education, and the country has actually come close to achieving its goal of universal primary education. However, quantity does not immediately translate to quality, nor does it substitute it. According to a study conducted a few years ago, the country has also invested heavily in technical and vocational training (TVET)—with the aim of producing “semi-skilled and relatively well-suited workers to the growing manufacturing and construction sectors”—increasing the number of TVET students from 5264 in 1999 to 271,389 in 2014. But again, quality seems to be a challenge whereby these programs still struggle to meet the skills needs of the market.\xa0 Often their students do not meet the standards of potential employers or fit the types of jobs employers are looking to fill.\xa0 Anecdotal evidence also suggests that there are deficiencies in self-motivation, discipline and team work, among others.[vi]'], ['Merit-based recruitment, training and incentives are essential in changing qualitatively the landscape of the labor force. In the area of training, in particular, focus should not just be on technical skills alone. The Ethiopian labor force should be taught core values such as discipline, harmony, and social responsibility as part of work ethic. This could be done through focusing on training of soft skills.'], ['\xa0In addition to the hard skills (the tangible\nand technical skills),\xa0soft skills training should be included in the\ncurriculum of the training institutions and industries. Soft\nskills\xa0commonly refer to the more intangible and non-technical abilities\nthat are more aligned with the general disposition and personality of the\nworkers. As such, soft skills relate to one’s attitudes and intuitions.\nExamples of soft skills are communication, teamwork, problem solving,\nself-motivation, ability to work under pressure and time management,\nnegotiation and conflict resolution, etc.\n \n \n \n\n \n \n  \n  \n  \n  \n  \n  \n  \n  \n  \n  \n  \n  \n \n \n \n'], ['Employers value soft skills because they enable people to function and thrive in teams and in organizations as a whole. A productive and healthy work environment depends on soft skills. After all, the workplace is an interpersonal space, where relationships must be built and fostered, perspectives must be exchanged, and occasionally conflicts must be resolved. In this regard, TVET institutions should look to partner with industries for cooperative training programs or apprenticeships with emphasis on soft skills.'], ['In\naddition to training, adequate compensation, of course, is vital. Singapore\nensured that officers were recruited and promoted by merit and were adequately\npaid. It is suggested that designing a civil service system based on merit\nwhich compensated employees well and built in provisions that reduced the\ndangers of corruption has been an essential step for the success of Asian\neconomies.'], ['The Asian way of doing things is spreading. The world is fascinated with how Asia developed at such a fast pace.\xa0 Officials, business people, journalists, scholars and students from all over the world, including Ethiopia, are traveling to various Asia countries to observe how to build large-scale, world-class infrastructure and futuristic cities. We need to continue to look to Asia to study on how to align our industries and universities, examine social policies that promote national solidarity and their values and culture that shaped their identities. AS'], ['Editor’s Note: The writer is a staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the FDRE and can be reached at tsegabk@gmail.com '], ['Endnotes'], ['[i]\nSee Parag Khanna, “ Welcome to the Asian\ncentury’’, Globe and Mail, February 2, 2019.'], ['[ii] See Stefano Caria, ‘’Industrialization on a Knife’s\nEdge Productivity, Labor Costs and the Rise of Manufacturing in Ethiopia’’, The\nWorld Bank Group-Policy Research Working Paper 8980, August 2019. '], ['[iii] See Zhang Lihua, ‘’China’s Traditional Cultural Values\nand National Identity’’, Carnegie-Tsingua Center for Global Policy,\nNovember 21, 2013.'], ['[iv] See Dong Hyeon Jung, ‘’Asian Values: A pertinent\nConcept to Explain Economic Development of East Asia?’’, Comparative\nCivilizations Review, Vol. 51, No.51, Fall 2004.'], ['[v] See Prashanth Parameswaran, ‘’10 Lessons From Lee\nKuan Yew’s Singapore’’, The Diplomat, March 24, 2015.'], ['[vi]\xa0 See Christina\nGolubski, ‘’African Lions: Trends in Ethiopia’s Dynamic Labor Market’’, Brookings\nInstitution, August 17, 2016.']]}, {'Date': 'September 19, 2019', 'Header': 'Analysis : Family members arrested for planning child marriage for 15-year-old girl in Ethiopia', 'news_paragraphs': [[' Abraham Gelaw\xa0\xa0 '], ['Kola Tembein, Tigray, September 19/2019 –\xa0Earlier  this year, Haderu Gebray, 15, and her parents were arrested for planning her wedding. Child marriage is illegal in Ethiopia yet her father, who works in government, planned to wed her to an older man she  had never met. '], ['Her plight hit the media headlines instantly. All it took to create a huge public outcry on her behalf was a post on Facebook from a young  man in her area.'], ['But the entire experience has left Haderu shaken.'], ['What made her intended marriage ironic is that she lives in a district where there is a strong movement against child marriage, with a high level of awareness that it is a harmful practice, and of the legal consequences.'], ['Haderu had never set eyes on her would-be husband. “All the \narrangements were made between my parents and that of my future \nhusband,” she says.'], ['The wedding preparations were in full swing when the police got wind  of it. They arrested Haderu’s parents, her would-be husband and his parents. Haderu was not spared either. She was placed in jail for  ‘protection purposes’, as she puts it, and together with her parents was released on bail a short while later. They agreed to cancel the  wedding.\xa0'], ['\xa0“At the time I was not happy that the marriage was [cancelled] as so much effort and expense was [spent] by my parents in organizing the wedding,” she says. She had resigned herself to her fate and planned to continue her education while married. However, in instances of child marriage the girl typically drops out of school and does not complete her education.'], ['The Joint UNFPA-UNICEF Global Program to Accelerate Action to End Child Marriage is being implemented in Kolla Tembein District, as well as other districts. In Kolla Tembein, child marriage custom is a  deeply-rooted custom that affects even government employees like Haderu’s father, despite the government’s aim to end the practice.'], ['Parents such as Haderu’s often worry that their daughters may engage  in premarital sex and ‘smear’ their family’s honor by losing their virginity prior to marriage. Minors like Haderu pay the price for this.\xa0'], ['In Ethiopia, the minimum legal of marriage is 18 years. Yet the median age at first marriage is 17.1 years, according to the Ethiopian Demographic and Health Survey (2016). The government has embarked on a campaign to eliminate child marriage, among other harmful practices, by  2025.\xa0'], ['The Joint Global Program is being implemented in three districts in the Tigray Region, where child marriage is practiced widely, including Kola Tembein District. This practice leaves girls vulnerable to\xa0abuse and health problems, including potentially fatal complications of  pregnancy.'], ['Thanks to the commitment of the Regional Government of Tigray and  efforts made with the support of the Global Program, child marriage is on the decline. Community structures at grassroots level, including  religious organizations and civil society organizations, take the lion’s  share of the credit.'], ['When couples seek to marry at Guya Mariam church, Priest  Gebreegziabher Tiku asks them to produce documents proving that they are not underage. He also preaches to his flock about the consequences of  child marriage and other harmful practices.'], ['“We are seeing very good results as far as warding off child marriage is concerned,” he says.'], ['The Women Development Group conducts community mapping exercises, \nwhich are stepped up in months prior to popular wedding seasons. The \nmembers keep track of every girl in the community, their marriage status\n and whether or not they are still in school. They report this \ninformation to the District Women’s Affairs Office.'], ['“This has helped us to prevent the marriage of underage girls,” says  Leteselas Berhe, leader of a Women Development Group in the Guya  locality of the Kola Tembein District. “We have brought cases of violators to the attention of law enforcement bodies, one of which was  the case of Haderu.”'], ['Some families reverse their decision when they realize that the Women  Development Group is hot on their trails. But cases such as Haderu’s  are usually handled by a Marriage Annulment Committee set up at the local level, and the perpetrators are subject to the justice system.'], ['“We have registered good results in the fight against harmful  practices, and promoting institutional delivery (at a health center) and  a savings culture among women,” adds Leteselas.\xa0 Because girls who  leave school are more likely to be married off early, and because many  child brides are forced to drop out, the Women Development Groups also  work closely with local schools.'], ['The prevalence of child marriage in Ethiopia is 58 per cent for the age group 25-49 years, according to the Ethiopian Demographic and Health  Survey (2016). In pursuit of its ambitious vision of eliminating child  marriage by 2025, the government is implementing a mix of interventions  at different levels. This engages multiple partners and grassroots  structures, including Women Development Groups, women’s associations,  civil society organizations (CSOs), faith-based organizations, and  community leaders.\xa0'], ['A multi-sectoral government structure, the Steering Committee in the  fight against harmful practices, has been set up at locality and  regional levels to strengthen community efforts in the fight against  child marriage. The committee involves 13 different sectors, including  health, education, and law enforcement bodies, according to Alemat Amare, Deputy Head of the Bureau of Women’s Affairs, Tigray.'], ['Community mapping has been conducted in the intervention districts to  track which girls are married and those not yet married, as well as who  is in school and those who are not,  Alemat says.'], ['“We have achieved a lot but we can’t say that we have zero incidences\n of child marriage,” she says. Much remains to be done, especially as a \nnumber of districts in the region, including Kola Tembein, continue to \ngrapple with the deep-rooted practice.'], ['This academic year alone, a large number of girls have reportedly \ndropped out of school in the region, mostly for economic reasons yet the\n contribution of harmful practices such as child marriage cannot be \nruled out.\xa0'], ['To educate communities about the risks that go with exposing their  daughters to early marriage, gender clubs have been established in  schools across the region to provide peer-to-peer education on sexual  and reproductive health (SRH), harmful practices and other related  challenges. SRH services are provided free of charge at health  institutions, and critical messages are relayed using mini media (sound  systems set up to transmit educational messages to students through an  edutainment approach) in schools.'], ['While Haderu was unhappy about her personal situation being publicized on social media, she believes it was a good strategy for  others to learn from. Currently in sixth grade, she is happy to be in  school and wants to continue her education until she decides to marry.\xa0  '], ['Editor’s Note: This story has been originally published here.  \xa0\xa0 ']]}, {'Date': 'September 11, 2019', 'Header': 'News: Drought-hit Borana Pastoralists receive insurance payout', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Standard staffs'], ['Borana/Oromia, September 11/2019 – A livestock insurance product aimed at protecting pastoralists against calamity from drought made a payout to close to 3,000 Borana pastoralists following the extremely poor rains this year. Referred to as the Index-Based Livestock Insurance (IBLI), it is an innovative financial solution spearheaded by the International Livestock Research Institute (ILRI) with a commercial partner, Oromia Insurance SC (OIC),. '], ['This year, the main March – June rainy season, locally called Ganna, and is responsible for an average of 60 percent of the annual rainfall in Borana, fell short, resulting in limited pasture regeneration and perceptible decline in milk production and live weight of animals. This in turn has negatively impacted the well-being of pastoralists, who rely on livestock for their daily subsistence. According to USAID, much of the pastoral regions of Somali and Southern Oromia are experiencing the second major drought since 2017, which has caused severe water shortages, catastrophic livestock losses, and humanitarian crises. And, solutions like livestock insurance will add to the efforts made by development partners through availing cash to purchase feed, water and medicine for animals during stressful seasons – but before pastorlalists experience any loss of animals. '], ['IBLI was piloted in Borana pastoral zone in 2012, and operates based on the assumption that a significant risk in the area is rainfall variability – across seasons and places. According to Yihenew Zewdie (PhD), Program and Partnerships Manager at ILRI, IBLI uses a satellite-based forage monitoring platform to inform the timing and extent of insurance payouts to individual pastoralist policy holders before the underlying ‘risk’ – drought – happens. Insurance payment is effected when the estimated forage condition in an area fall below an agreed and pre-determined level of triggering threshold. This makes the insurance product unique as it avails resources to policy-holding pastoralists before drought strikes. The product is also referred to as  Asset Protection Contract. \xa0'], ['On September 10, 2019, the underwriter of the insurance product, OIC, paid ETB 4.88 million to its policyholders. One of the beneficiaries of the payout, Aiysha Golicha (pictured below), who had insured her 20 cattle and 5 camels, explains ‘livestock insurance protects pastoralists during catastrophe’. She further added that after insuring her livestock, she does not have to wait for support from others as she receives payout before the failure of the rain causes severe impact on the animals.'], [' Melkachew Temesgen, Microinsurance Director at OIC, stresses that the product they are underwriting not only provides compensation ahead of drought but also forage condition announcement contributes to informing pastoralists’ decisions concerning preparations they have to make to mitigate the challenges of forage scarcity. '], ['According to information received by Addis Standard Ethiopia’s Ministry of Agriculture, Agricultural Transformation Agency (ATA), ILRI and other development partners are exploring options that would enable the consolidation and expansion of agricultural insurance in Ethiopia and thereby help overcome the critical operational and regulatory challenges facing the smallholder-focused agricultural insurance industry in the country. AS']]}, {'Date': 'September 6, 2019', 'Header': 'News: FAO provides immediate livestock protection assistance to drought-affected pastoral, agro-pastoral communities in Ethiopia', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba, September 06/2019 – The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) is  providing immediate livestock protection assistance to drought-affected pastoral and agro-pastoral communities in Ethiopia.'], ['While sending off a consignment of veterinary drugs from Addis Abeba  to Oromia and Somali Regions, Dr. Alemayehu Mekonnen, the Chief  Veterinary Officer from the Ministry of Agriculture thanked FAO for the  intervention. He said the Organization has historically played a key  role in responding to livestock emergencies and diseases, including the  eradication of Rinderpest in Ethiopia.'], ['“These veterinary drugs and animal feed will reduce the negative  effects of drought on the pastoral and agro pastoral livelihoods,” he  said.\xa0\xa0'], ['Funded by the United Nations Central Emergency Response Fund (UN \nCERF) and the European Commission for Humanitarian Aid Operations \n(ECHO), \xa0FAO is providing livestock treatment and facilitating \nhouseholds to sell livestock that is still in marketable condition to \ngenerate cash and reduce pressure on the limited available pasture. \n\xa0Additionally, the targeted households are being provided with livestock\n feed as well as cash to cater for other essential household needs. FAO \nis also raising awareness in the targeted regions, on the use of \nLivestock Emergency Guidelines and Standards (LEGS) – a set of \ninternational guidelines and standards for the design, implementation, \nand assessment of livestock interventions to assist people affected by \nhumanitarian crises.'], ['The FAO Representative in Ethiopia, Ms. Fatouma Seid explained that \nthe interventions, targeting 151 000 households (more than 750 000 \npeople) would contribute to restoring the deteriorating health and body \nconditions of the livestock and reduce mortality.'], ['“Ultimately, the aim is to safeguard livelihoods of the targeted  communities and accelerate their recovery from the effects of recurrent  drought,” she said.The livestock sector in Ethiopia is one of the largest in Africa and  contributes to 19 percent of the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP),  and 15 percent of export earnings. The sector is a source of  protein-rich foods (such as milk, meat, and eggs); income; manure, draught power; fuel; and leather. The sector supports the livelihoods of  about 80 percent of rural people in Ethiopia.'], ['However, the detrimental effects of climate variability are affecting\n the well-being of livestock, and their production and reproduction \nefficiency. Frequent drought and a decrease in rainfall are affecting \nforage production; water availability; rangeland vegetation patterns; \nand is heightening and reinforcing the susceptibility of livestock to \ndiseases.'], ['As a result, capacity of the affected households to cope has declined\n to the point where there is a growing threat to the survival of viable \npastoral production systems.'], ['The “Emergency Livestock Response to Drought Affected Pastoral  and Agro-Pastoral Communities in Afar, Oromia, Somali and SNNP Regions  of Ethiopia” Project is being implemented in close collaboration with international, regional, and national organizations and Ethiopia’s  Ministry of Agriculture. FAO']]}, {'Date': 'September 5, 2019', 'Header': 'News: Organized crime, poor policy fueling Africa’s looming drugs crisis', 'news_paragraphs': [['New research warns that African consumption of illegal drugs is projected to become a public health emergency.'], ['Addis Abeba, September 05/2019 –\xa0Africa faces a substantial increase in illegal drug use, fueled by organized crime and ineffective policy. In the next 30 years, sub-Saharan Africa will see the world’s biggest surge in illicit drug users, with its share of global drug consumption projected to double. '], ['This is according to comprehensive new research and analysis of Africa’s drug trade, policy and future consumption trends by the ENACT transnational organized crime program. ENACT is a partnership between the Institute for Security Studies (ISS), INTERPOL and the Global Initiative Against Transnational Organized Crime (GI), funded by the European Union. The research was released in Addis Abeba on Thursday 5 September. '], ['It is anticipated\nthat by 2050 there will be an additional 14 million Africans using\nillegal drugs, with a total of 23 million users in sub-Saharan Africa. The\ncontinent has also dominated a global expansion of non-medical use of\npharmaceutical opioids, with 87% of global seizures in 2016. '], ['East Africa will experience the\nsharpest increase in the proportion of its population using illicit drugs, and\nWest Africa is set to remain the continent’s largest regional drug market. '], ['West Africa’s role has also expanded\nas a global trafficking hub for drugs, particularly cocaine. The region’s drug\nusers will more than double from about 5.7 million in 2018 to 13 million in\n2050. An underground economy has developed around the production and\ndistribution of methamphetamines, particularly in Nigeria. '], ['Africa’s dangerous drugs phenomenon is driven by weak regulation and organized criminals operating across national borders. It is assisted by global production of cocaine and heroin to levels the 2018 World Drug Report says are the highest ever recorded. '], ['A growing heroin economy has emerged\nfrom the international drug smuggling route down the East Coast of Africa for\nshipment to international markets. '], ['Drug use threatens African health and national development, ENACT said. The drug trade, fueled by organized crime, corrupts democratic institutions and threatens the achievement of the sustainable development goals. African consumption of illegal drugs is projected to become a public health emergency but the continent has a dramatic inability to meet demand for treatment. For example, 2017 data revealed that 40% of high-risk drug users in Nigeria wanted treatment but were unable to access it.'], ['The African Union (AU) and its regional economic communities need to act urgently to address the drug challenge, said Eric Pelser, ENACT program head at the ISS.‘Illegal drug use poses a formidable law enforcement and public health problem to governments in Africa,’ he said. '], ['Use of injected drugs like heroin\nrisks another spike in HIV and other diseases, and the growing significance of\nAfrica as a drug transportation hub will place enormous strain on law\nenforcement. '], ['Participation in drug trafficking offers political, security and business leaders windfall profits, says GI’s Mark Shaw, an organized crime expert. ‘They can conduct electoral and security campaigns, feed patronage systems, or take a fast track to wealth and power. In turn, politicians and security leaders can offer traffickers protection or even assistance.’ '], ['African drug markets are becoming ever\nmore sophisticated and increasingly take advantage of secure innovations such\nas blockchain technology, cryptocurrencies and trading platforms on the dark\nweb.'], ['Disproportionate\nharm from poor policy'], ['African drug\npolicy is complex and controversial, and previous attempts to respond to drug\ntrade and consumption have done a disproportionate amount of harm with limited\nresults.'], ['Securitized responses have had unintended consequences. Drugs became a revenue source for terrorist organizations, national prison populations expanded and generations of young people were disenfranchised by criminal convictions for low-level drug crimes. '], ['Continental\ndrug markets continued to expand even as illicit crops were destroyed, drug users\nimprisoned, illicit labs dismantled, and drug shipments seized. There is a\ngrowing evidence base for the human and economic costs of the failing ‘war on\ndrugs’, with health institutions and civil society voices pushing for a new\ndirection in drug policy.'], ['Most drugs remain illegal across much of the continent, but there is a wide discrepancy in how they are policed and controlled. The traditional consensus on full prohibition by African governments is breaking down and some states now recognize legalization of drugs as a more effective approach, with AU and national policy makers tackling Africa’s drug challenge with evidence-based policies which include law enforcement, social welfare and public health. '], ['ENACT made a number of policy\nrecommendations. It said effective responses must reduce production and\ntrafficking of drugs, coupled with demand reduction and expanded healthcare for\ntreatment of drug users. Data collection and monitoring of drug use should be\nexpanded and coordinated, and the stigma removed from drug use and the need for\ntreatment.'], ['All regions of the continent should bolster their intelligence-led cross-border law enforcement to curb supply and production of illicit drugs, targeting traffickers rather than users.  INTERPOL has been supporting the establishment of analytical units in a number of African countries and developing capacity to address the drugs issue. This approach has already proven to be effective as these units have started to produce their own analytical products. Pilot countries have also expressed their will to disseminate the culture and method of criminal intelligence analysis, using their analysts to provide training within police schools. ENACT/AS ']]}]
[{'Date': 'July 19, 2019', 'Header': 'Exclusive: “Given the things that I learned from girls here I don’t think they need my advice”- Malala Yousafzai', 'news_paragraphs': [['The Pakistani activist for female education and the youngest Nobel Prize Laureate, Malala Yousafzai, was in Ethiopia last week. Addis Standard’s Nasredin Mohammed and Mahlet Fasil had the opportunity for this exclusive interview shortly before she left. Excerpts:'], ['Addis Abeba, July 19/2019'], ['Addis Standard – Tell us about the purpose of your visit? What exactly are you planning to accomplish? '], ['Malala Yousafzai – I give my first speech at the UN when I turned 16. It was on my birthday and the UN called it “Malala Day.”.Since then I have been celebrating my birthday with girls around the world who need a voice; I have been in Nigeria, in Kenya, in the Syrian refuge [camp]…trying to raise awareness about girls’ education. And this year I decided that I would come to Ethiopia because, here there are more than five million girls who do not have access to education and more than 40 percent of the girls get married before the age of 18. And I believe that girls all around the world deserve equal opportunity in their life and they all deserve education. So I’m here to meet [some of these] girls, learn their stories from them and find out what’s the best way for me to help them in their education and how we can work here in Ethiopia.'], ['Who are you partnering with in order to make this a reality? '], ['I’ve been here for like four or five days now and I met education activists, I met a women’s rights activist and these are incredible people who are fighting for girls’ rights and women’s rights and I learned a lot from them. You know they were talking about the barriers that are there for girls in having access to their education from menstrual hygiene to lack of awareness regarding sexual reproduction rights and early child marriages and teenage pregnancies, and lots of issues that girls are confronting. But we also talked about changes in the policies recently;  the government is passionate about bringing in policies that can empower women and girls and I had the opportunity to meet with Prime Minister [Abiy Ahmed] and  president [Sahle-Werk Zewde] and I heard a very positive response regarding investing in girls’ education. And I advocate for the complete education of girls and we were on the same page; we agreed that there’s a lot that needs to be done and we should be working together.'], ['What is your understanding of access to education for girls in Ethiopia? '], ['I myself was a student and, I am still a student (I am in a University) but when I was 11 years old the extremist called the Taliban; they abandoned education in Swat Valley and they said no girl was allowed to go to school; they banned women from going to markets. They told women to stay inside houses and they bombed no more than 400 schools. And that was the point when I realized that education was something more than just reading and writing. It was empowerment for women, and people who do not want women to be empowered deprived women from their education. So if you want to empower women and girls you have to give them education, quality education, not just primary but also secondary education so they can then go ahead and explore careers and get their tertiary education and other forms of education and skills if they want to develop. '], ['What I have learned is that education not only empowers girls but also helps us to build communities that are more peaceful, that are healthier and wealthier. We did studies together with the World Bank [and it] shows that if we educate all girls – give them 12 years of quality education- it will add up to 30 trillion dollars to the global economy. So this is an investment that gives us returns in trillions. And I think this is the same for men; all men working in societies and we all understand that men too go out and  create jobs and they are actively participating in the economy. That’s how they got here as well. Think about the other half of the population, which is women and girls. And if we invite them and if we also give them the education and equal opportunities they will boost their economies further; you create more jobs and more opportunities. Not only that but you also improve health when you improve education. When a mother is educated  the family is more healthier, the family is safer as well. '], ['A recent study by Borgen project stated that primary school attendance rate for girls in Ethiopia has risen from 30.2 percent in 2000/01 to 64.5 percent in 2010/11. All things considered, it’s an impressive feat, but what can be done to improve this? What’s expected of politicians, religious leaders, civil society organizations, think tanks, and other academic institutions? What do you think should these institutions do? '], ['I think the first thing is a policy, where policy should ensure 12 years of education to all girls. It should ensure that girls should have the right to 12 years of education and Ethiopia is heading in that direction. The second thing is implementing those policies because these policies need to go into action and I think that’s the next step and the civil society and everybody needs to push for that. There are also other things that we need to consider at the same time which could act as a barrier for girls education. Things like the right for girls to be safe when they’re going to school; are the girls feeling safe within school? Is there anything about menstrual hygiene? Are they getting those facilities or not? Are they getting awareness about their sexual drives and all other things? Are we also helping them in preventing child marriages and in raising awareness about teenage pregnancies? All these things matter; that is also the thing that the law needs to ensure along with the availability; there’s financing towards education so we know how much does the budget actually provide for education.'], ['And I think that there’s definitely the need to increase financing towards girls education especially in the secondary education for girls. That’s the crucial bit because oftentimes there’s investment in the primary education girls and boys enroll. [But] there’s not enough investment in the secondary education; children drop out of schools. And then there’s investment in tertiary education as well. Those are important as well. But how do we ensure that children can go into the tertiary education if they’re not getting their secondary education?'], ['So I think financing education is important and for that I always push the international community and other regional organizations and governmental bodies that are out there to increase investment towards education whether it is at the G7 or the G20, and the Global Partnership for Education.'], ['And at Malala Fund we do the advocacy, but we also invest in local education advocates who are fighting for girls’ rights. We are talking to teachers, local religious leaders, and girls’ parents to convince them to send their daughters to school. In some places we are training female teachers because parents often do not send their daughters to schools. We are also using technology to make education easier for girls especially those who are refugees or displaced girls. So we are bringing our projects in countries like  Nigeria, Pakistan, India, Brazil, the Syrian refuge camps. And hopefully here to, you know, I’m here to learn from girls and find out what’s the best way we can work and explore how we can start these projects in Ethiopia.'], ['Speaking of using technology, a few months ago, Assembly Newsletter, which is your initiative, featured Behtelihem Dessie, the 19 year old Ethiopian software developer. Besides featuring stories like hers, how else is Assembly helping girls with the knack for digital entrepreneurship? '], ['Through Malala Fund we promote quality education and I think for the 21st century quality education includes STEM education; it includes coding and computer science as well because this is one of those things that you would need for the 21st century jobs. In the next 20 to 50 years and the next generation we would be facing more challenges in terms of that if we do not first give them education. I visited Betty’s project and I think she is incredible and we shared her stories with Malala Funds platform which is Assembly, and we heard from girls all around the world such as India, Afghanistan, Mexico… I don’t know, like every part of the world goes out sharing their stories and saying how they realize that education is important and then they use their voice to bring change. And Betty is one of them. And this is a platform open to all girls so if there’s any girl in Ethiopia right now who wants to share her story, she can go on Malala Fund website and can share her stories with us and we will publish it because we believe in girls voice. Girls voice is important and our leaders and our society need to listen to these voices. '], ['Besides spreading these voices, do you think, given the rising tech startups in Ethiopia that your foundation can help girls improve their lives? If yes, how are you planning to make sure that the opportunities are available to girls outside of metropolitan areas?'], ['So far we have not started our projects in Ethiopia, and we’re exploring how we can start. And for me it was a learning experience and from this trip we will go and see what’s the best way to get involved. I don’t want to be one of those people who are sitting in the west and say I know everything; we don’t. '], ['So I think we will work with local activists for that. And for me the most important part is to reach out to the girls like we do with those who are the most marginalized, such as in the north of Pakistan. That’s a place which is one of the most marginalized areas. In Nigeria, we also work in the north because there are, again, some of the most marginalized areas and girls are facing many barriers there. So hopefully it’s the same if we start doing the work here; we will try to reach out to the girls who are the most marginalized and because they need a voice and they need opportunities and they need those facilities to help them to get their education and learning and leading their life.'], ['One of the areas Ethiopia’s first lady Zinash Tayachew is focusing on is expansion of primary education; her office is building around 20 schools in remote areas where there are lack of schools. Do you see any potential for collaboration between your foundation and the office of the first lady to this end? '], ['Hopefully we can explore. I only had the opportunity to meet with the president and the prime minister. Next time when we come back, we are here to explore and we will see. There’s still a lot to learn before starting our work. And I also realize, as you mentioned, there are girls who I visited who have the opportunity to have access to computers, and they’re using coding but there are still many girls who do not have access to even computers or any other technology. They’re still girls who are coming from  rural areas to urban areas, and they are here in hopes of getting education and opportunities; but sometimes they never get to see that. Those girls need help. '], ['Our work should focus on how we can get those girls back into school. I got to see some of those girls as well who are now in an education center. It was a great learning experience to see these girls from different backgrounds in different places and to see where every girl stands and to learn that when you give girls the opportunities to education their live and visions change completely and they suddenly realize that they’re capable of anything.'], ['Finally, if you have the opportunity to address a group of girls who are fighting all odds just to get access to education, what would be your message to them?\xa0 '], ['To be honest given the things that I learned from girls here I don’t think they need my advice. They are so passionate about their education, about their rights, and they know what to say but all I can say is that believe in yourself, believe in your voice and your role is so important in society.'], ['Oftentimes people do not even give attention to the issues that they are facing because nobody is speaking about them. So even when you speak about it, even when you mention it, even when you raise it on a platform than yourself it is a big contribution, because you are telling society that this thing is happening, early child marriages are happening, teen pregnancies are happening, there is lack of schools for girls and you need to do something about it. So I think even just ringing this bell, giving this wake up  call to the society is in itself a huge contribution. AS']]}, {'Date': 'July 16, 2019', 'Header': 'Profile: Saniya Foundation: Unearthing potentials through girls’ education in Ethiopia', 'news_paragraphs': [['Najat Hamza, For Addis Standard  '], ['Addis Abeba, July 16/2019 – Girls Education is Key to transform society in a tangible way. It is not a hidden fact that Ethiopia is the second populous county on the continent with population over 100 million (UNESCO, 2018). According to Global Partnership for Education Ethiopia has one of the highest drop-out rates in the world and girls are disproportionally affected. Global Partnership for education reports exponential growth in education in the last decade alone with enrollment number of 25 million to just 10 million a decade ago. However, girls make a significantly less percentage of these numbers. There are a lot of statistics that show the disparity in education for girls in Ethiopia due to multiple factors. The overall education system in Ethiopia need additional resources, better access for rural children and school buildings.'], ['I cannot fix the entire system, it would be a dream if I could. The creation of Saniya Foundation is aimed at  focusing on girl’s education and removing the barriers they face to attain an education and unlock their potentials in Ethiopia. Saniya Foundation is a nonprofit organization founded in Minnesota this year. Its mission is to provide accessibility to education, provide platform for leadership and empowerment for women and girls in Ethiopia. This organization is named after one of the bravest and strongest women I know, my mother. She was born and raised in Carcar, Hararge. She moved to Dire Dawa shortly after she got marriage. '], ['She was the palm tree in the storm, bending with tides to keep our family safe. I left my mother in 1998 when we left the country to our neighboring country, Kenya. I was not excited about the trip, I did not fully understand the gravity of the situation. Our family was broken into two. The younger once stayed with her in Ethiopia while we fled with my father. I never really saw her as she was with full health since that fateful day, and today she is with her creator. I never got over the fact that she passed away in our absence. This project is a way to bring our family healing and to spread her sense of hope, generosity and service. My mother gave me a toolkit to survive and even thrive in this chaotic world without her presence across the ocean and I know my sibling will each attest to this fact as well.\xa0 I carry her wisdom, bravery and determination in the face of adversity and never give up on anything I set my eyes to. This organization will be her legacy and I will work tirelessly to reflect those values she lived with and taught to us and others throughout her life. She was passionate about education and I wanted to honor her in making a difference in education in Ethiopia, a country which has made a great stride towards education in the last two decades. But there are still long ways to go when it comes to girls’ education, especially those in remote areas of the country.'], ['The number one factor affecting the attainment of education in Ethiopia is Poverty. The other factors are societal and cultural factors as well as norms and traditional practices that hinder the progression of education for girls. Girls and women face many societal, cultural and traditional barriers. These barriers are not permanent roadblocks if we work to eliminate them by providing girls and women the opportunities they deserve. Educating women and girls benefits society immensely. '], ['To this end, Saniya Foundation has identified six program areas; Education, Economic independent, Leadership and empowerment, Daraaraa Project, Art and literature and mentorship to provide girls who live in rural areas with supportive services. There are various organizations like us already active in various parts of Ethiopia. The gender disparity in education, leadership, financial security for women is a huge and it needs every initiative currently active as well as young organizations to make a meaningful dent in it. '], ['Saniya Foundation will provide a wraparound service to the girls that will enroll in our programs. We will stay with our girls until they can be self-sufficient. Our program areas are specifically geared towards removing barriers for each individual girl so that she could stay in school and fulfill her potential. our program is self-explanatory except for the “Daraaraa Project.” The Daraaraa project is a specific program that will be providing school girls with sanitary pads quarterly, teaching girls and women how to better care for themselves and provide reproductive education. The lack of sanitary pads often can lead to girls missing school or worse dropping out due to repeated tardiness. We will provide an ongoing supply of sanitary pads so that girls would not missing classes for the lack of it. \xa0Daraaraa project will also create culturally appropriate platforms and safe space where girls can learn about their bodies. '], ['The other piece of  Saniya Foundation is addressing women who are already out of school and have family. These women usually rear children and have no means of getting education or a way to earn a living. We want to provide technical skills, trade, family farming or any number of activities that can help these women earn a living. A woman who can fend for herself is an empowered woman, an empowered woman transforms her communities in a way nothing could. If they choose to pursue their education they will have an income and a skill to help themselves to get through school.\xa0 Saniya Foundation wants to tackle the issues of girl’s education form both sides of the spectra. That is, to help girls stay in school and provide women the skills to earn a living in their communities. '], ['Saniya Foundation is young and resources are small currently, but my vision for the outcome I want to achieve is my driving force right now. I understand what education can do for a girl. I was privileged enough to grow up in Dire Dawa where early days of my education at Abdir Elementary school ignited my love of learning. \xa0As a refugee in United States, I did not struggle in school due to the quality education I have received growing up. I understand what it means to fight for gender equality growing up. We had to fight to play soccer or any other male branded sports in those years. I also know how limiting that could be to a girl who simply wants to be free and is able to pursue any dream she wants to. I want to give girls the same if not better opportunities I was privileged to have. '], ['The United Nations Girls Education Initiative estimates that over 131 million girls worldwide are out of school right now, and that is a disadvantage to the world. The guiding principle of Saniya Foundation is a drop in the bucket of this huge see of girls being denied their education around the world for various reasons. But, I believe in the power of one. If we can educate one girl, that is one girl less than what was.  Saniya Foundation will start by identifying areas where the disparity is the greatest and work our way up. '], ['I want to imagine a world where each of these amazing potentials can be unlocked and will start with Ethiopia right alongside many other organizations already making a difference on the ground. We can improve the gender gap in education if we all work together and tackle the problem. It is possible. Saniya Foundation inaugural event will be held in Minnesota, on August 9th, 2019. Soon,  Saniya Foundation will bring its project to Ethiopia and start working on phase one of the project, which is data collection and identifying areas that could benefit from our programs the best. AS'], ['___________________________________//______________________________'], ['\xa0Editor’s Note: Najat Hamza is CEO & Founder of Saniya Foundation  www.saniyafoundation.org.\xa0\xa0She can be found at nhamza@saniyafoundation.org '], ['']]}, {'Date': 'July 15, 2019', 'Header': 'Feature: How Ethiopia is dealing with unprecedented IDP crisis', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], ['Addis Abeba, July 15/2019 – In his July 1st 2019 parliamentary address outlining the performance of his government in the last 11 months (2011 E.C.), Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed admitted internal displacement as one of the challenges his administration has had to contend with. Indeed, Ethiopia has faced a myriad of inherited and fresh socio-economic and political challenges that PM Abiy’s administration said it has been rectifying over the course of the past year, with an increasing number of internally displaced persons (IDPs) posing an even greater predicament. '], ['At the front and center of this challenge is the inconsistent number of IDPs often mentioned by various non-governmental and media entities. Although there have been differing and often overlapping numbers in the past one year, the government maintained that at a national level the number of IDPs stood at 2.3 million. Displaced population data by IOM’s Displacement Tracking Matrix (DTM) which was published on June 05/2019 reported that as of April this year the number of displaced people stood at 2,194,946. '], ['Similarly, unlike reports of displacements, reports of IDP returns are far and between. During his latest parliamentary appearance, PM Abiy said that over the past few months, the government has been undertaking extensive work to return 2.1 million IDPs back to their original homes, with a remaining 130,000 to be returned soon. '], ['At the federal level, the Ministry of Peace has been leading a ministerial task force comprising the Ministries of Health, Water, Energy & Irrigation, Education, Agriculture, Transport, the Attorney General and the Disaster Risk Management Commission. According to information obtained from the  ministerial task force, since it was established “it has been working with regional authorities to address the displacement challenge and respond in a sustainable manner.” Mandated with evaluating the return activities, “the Ministerial task force also distributed itself to different parts of the country where cases of displacement existed to direct and monitor progress, demonstrating political will at the highest level.” '], ['Displacement root causes'], ['Two particular factors are known to be the major contributing factors of internal displacement in Ethiopia: environment related displacement due mainly to drought and flooding and; conflict related displacement. According to the National Flood Taskforce statement released in April this year, flood alert in belg-receiving areas of the country and river flows were caused by highland rains. “Over 5,600 people were displaced by floods in Selte woreda, Selte zone (SNNP region). Physical access was also impeded in Somali region as a result of poor road conditions and seasonal rivers becoming impassable, particularly in Dollo Ado road to Liban zone.” According to the government, of the overall displacement figure environment related crises have contributed to the displacement of approximately 400,000 Ethiopians. That leaves the overwhelming number of displacement causes to recurrent inter-communal conflicts often incited by political arsonists, “attempting to profit at the expense of citizenry and in violation of human rights.”  '], ['Of the total number of IDPs, Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed’s administration inherited up to 1.2 million victims of displacement, particularly due to the violence in Oromia-Somali regional states, drought and other causes encountered in 2015/2016. Most of the affected communities and families  remained in IDP shelters by the time the new administration took over in April 2018. “This has added to the burden of adequately returning citizens to their original homes, made more complex by the added characteristic of inter and intra-regional displacements,” according to the ministerial task force. '], ['Around 1.5 million were displaced within their source regions while around 800,000 were displaced across neighboring regions. The biggest and most daunting displacement was that of the Gedeo-West Guji displacement of 2018, where inter-communal violence instigated by criminal armed groups had forced some 958,175 civilians, overwhelmingly from the Gedeo community, to leave their homes and live in appalling conditions in IDP shelters.     '], ['Despite criticisms of forced returns, however, the ministerial task force says that as of late “noting these complexities, the federal government has been working in close collaboration with source and recipient regional governments to bring about sustainable interventions during reinstatement.”  The phase by phase approach to return a majority of IDPs initially focused on provision of food and material support at various sites where IDPs were temporarily taking shelter, and also within the original locations they returned to. “A primary focus throughout all the phases has been to ensure that IDPs resume their regular patterns of life upon return to their original homes.”'], ['Ensuring normal resumption of activities entailed security assessments before returns and addressing threats through targeted operations where threats existed; renovation of institutions (schools, health stations, agricultural institutions) and houses damaged during conflicts; as well as designing accelerated curriculum to ensure that school-aged children that missed the school year will also be able to catch up during the ‘kiremt’ break are all programs the ministerial task force has been conducting with regional state authorities. International organizations have also been providing support for IDPs within the temporary shelters. '], ['The government insists that while these examples indicate the types of interventions it, along with its development partners, has spearheaded to ensure that IDPs are reinstated fully, the process of return has been in line with internationally established principles and practices. These principles and related actions that have been undertaken in adherence with the principles include: “holding consultations with IDPs to establish alignment on purpose and goals of return; voluntary returns based on the consultations; facilitating the return of IDPs in a dignified manner; ensuring the safety and security of IDPs in their temporary shelters and en route to their original homes; and ensuring sustainable reinstatement which has focused on the provision of aluminum and plastic sheeting for use in rebuilding houses.”  The government also says that international procurement of vaccines and other medicines were conducted “to pre-empt any potential outbreaks; supply of water through trucks while parallelly digging wells for long-term access; and working in close alignment with financial institutions.” '], ['A critical component of sustainable work to return the displaced has also focused on establishing and maintaining the rule of law given the push factors that initiated the displacements, as well as related challenges faced in the process of reinstatement. '], ['The existence of criminals in these conflict affected areas, fueled mainly by breakdown of rule of law at lower levels of the administration, had initially exacerbated the situation and created ways in which armed groups have exploited victims of displacement and conflict to propagate their own agenda. There have also been deliberate distortions of reality, mostly on social media, through the proliferation of unsubstantiated information/images originating in other countries. An example includes circulation of images of severely malnourished women and children, which were later found to be non-Ethiopians. '], ['The government also says that there are visible evidences of cases of criminal elements “keeping IDPs hostage and barring their return as temporary shelters and IDP camps became their hideouts and means of exploiting financial gains”.  Considering these challenges,  the Ministerial task force says, efforts were intensified to identify and take due measures against criminals perpetuating the suffering of Ethiopians. “In a commitment to the rule of law, the Government has been holding accountable individuals and groups (including Government officials) engaged in displacing and disrupting the lives of citizens throughout the country, regardless of age, sex, leadership status.” '], ['In a recent interview held with DW Amharic,  for example, Sergeant Kemal Elemo, west Guji zone police chief, said that out of 222 suspects arrested for instigating the killings and  displacements in Gedeo west Guji zones, 89 were recently sentenced from two to 20 years in prison at a hearing conducted in a rotating court in  Shashemene city.  According to him a total of 72 charge files were opened against the 222 suspects. Of these, 25 charge files were sent to Shashemene revolving court where the 89 people were convicted. Sixteen more charge files containing names of 41 suspects who are still at large were also opened after consultations with returning IDPs who were victims of the displacement.  '], ['According to PM Abiy’s statement delivered at the parliament, at national level, more than 2500 suspects were identified as aiding and intensifying internal displacement. Due legal process has been underway to address the crimes committed. The Prime Minister also emphasized that holding individuals and groups who are further fueling conflict and violence related displacements accountable is an undertaking for all stakeholders, in addition to government. As the economic impact of displacements, strain on stretched public resources and the psychological and physical impact on the displaced is grave and far reaching, the responsibility of preventing such problems requires the efforts of all. '], ['In addition to government’s efforts to ensure the rule of law, on Tuesday July 09, development partners led by UNDP Ethiopia office, together with the National Disaster Risk Management Commission, have launched a four year project to support “the recovery of sustainable livelihoods and rehabilitation of infrastructure for 50,000 households for communities  affected by Gedeo-West Guji displacement.” '], ['According to the Ministerial task force, while efforts to return and rehabilitate the remaining IDPs to their original homes is ongoing and is “proving successful”, ensuring that displacements do not happen in the first place has been a strategic focus of the government. “For example, through prevention work, the Ministry of Peace has managed to circumvent potential conflicts that would have exacerbated the displacement challenge.” '], ['While the Ministry of Peace has been spearheading these activities, the role of other stakeholders like civil society, religious leaders and elders to build a culture of conflict resolution is key. AS']]}, {'Date': 'June 5, 2019', 'Header': 'News: ICRC, ERCS distribute vegetable seeds and farming tools for IDPs in East Hararghe Zone', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba, June 05/2019 –  Between 13 and 17  May 2019, more than 28,000 people (both Oromos and  Somalis) in Babile and Chinaksen districts of East Hararghe Zone, Oromia Region, and in Tuliguled district of Fafan Zone, Somali Region, received vegetable seeds and farming tools jointly distributed by the  ICRC and Ethiopian Red  Cross Society (ERCS). '], ['“We fled with nothing but with our lives. Everything we had was destroyed before our eyes,” says Abdulkadir Mohammed, 48, who is among hundred thousands of people displaced as a result of the conflict that occurred in 2017 along Oromia-Somali border areas in Eastern  Ethiopia.'], ['Abdulkadir, head of an 8-member family, explained: “our \nlife seemed gloomy following the conflict but thanks to the assistance \nprovided by the Red Cross, we now have hope.”'], ['“The distribution is aimed at restoring the  livelihoods of the affected communities”, remarked Tsegahun Tesfaye, an  agronomist working with the ICRC. Each household received three types of  vegetable seeds (onion, tomato, cabbage) as well as two farming tools.'], ['Moreover,  in each district, farmers training centers were equipped with necessary materials, while agriculture extension workers will be trained to  support farmers throughout the farming season, according to Tsegahun.  The ICRC has also started the rehabilitation of irrigation  infrastructures, damaged by the conflict where the displaced people  live.'], ['Fatuma Muktar, a 38 years old woman, is another recipient of\n the assistance. “We are happy with the assistance. I hope the seeds I \ngot will help me harvest 30 and 20 baskets of onion and tomato \nrespectively,” she indicated.'], ['Ethnic Oromos and Somalis, mainly \nagro-pastoralist communities living in areas along the border between \nthe two regions, have often been involved in violence linked to land \nsuitable for grazing and cultivation as well as access to water. The \nethnic violence that occurred along Oromo-Somali region left 700,000 \npeople displaced, according to official figure.'], ['The ICRC, in  partnership with the ERCS, provides assistance mainly to people affected  by conflict; also it engages in dialogue with relevant authorities to  sensitize them as to the needs of displaced people and about efforts to  protect health centers and allow circulation of ambulances transporting  the sick and wounded. ICRC']]}, {'Date': 'April 10, 2019', 'Header': 'Analysis: Smallholder silkworm farming taking roots in Ethiopia', 'news_paragraphs': [['Desalegne Tadesse'], ['Addis Abeba, April 10/2019 – This is a new chapter in sericulture development in Ethiopia. Silkworm farming had been piloted and promoted by smallholder farmers and enterprises in different parts of the country, but the focus was on Mulberry Silkworm production. Weak market linkages and limitations in knowledge and skills constrained progress for some time. The YESH Project led to shift in focus to the more adaptable and resilient Eri silkworm production, and tried to systematically address known knowledge and skills gaps, promoted dedicated land and rearing sheds for commercial production and encouraged local market linkages. Project beneficiaries and extension staff are joining hands to the uplift performance of the sericulture sub-sector not only as an economically viable and environmentally friendly source of good income but also as a source of decent employment for unemployed youth and women. How did this take place? By introducing and promoting inclusive and market orientated Eri Silkworm production agri-business with scope for expansion and upscaling.'], ['The YESH\nproject seeks to create 2,500 direct and many more indirect jobs to youth\nand women beneficiaries by providing the necessary technical support to start\ncommercial silkworm production. This includes delivery of a series of trainings\n(technical, entrepreneurship, financial management and marketing), facilitation\nof the formation of youth silkworm farming enterprises, ensuring that the\nbusiness is established on a dedicated cultivated land for production Eri\nsilkworm feed and building of rearing sheds and dissemination of the starter\nkit (rearing trays, beds, mountages, spinning machines). The project also supports\nthe establishment of sericulture marketplaces to serve needs for demonstration,\ntraining and marketing of inputs and outputs. Chano Mille and Ugayehu are two\nof the many villages the project has been underway for the last three years. '], ['The progress that two of the project beneficiaries have made so far demonstrate what can be achieved at scale when development support combined with the support of local institutions meets the genuine interest of needy communities.'], ['Mintwab Mukulo is a champion silkworm grower in Mirab Abaya Woreda who had made rapid progress, and she tells her story with pride: “I have always been attracted to silkworm rearing for many years, but production volume, as well as quality remained low. The project helped me improve my knowledge and skills in the business. In the past two years, I have expanded my silkworm farming business and with it, my incomes and associated benefits have increased rapidly. In 2018, I harvested five times and earned ETB17,000 (US$600) from the sale of raw cocoons. Now, all my wishes and aspirations are being realized.”'], ['Abenezer\nSilkworm growers’ enterprise is one of the 120 youth enterprises the project\nhas helped establish so far. They operate in Chano Millie village of Gamo Zone.\nAs a group, they foresee a hopeful future in this business. They acquired\nskills and know-how in rearing silkworms. Apart from making attractive incomes\nfrom production and sale of raw cocoons, they are engaged in a small side\nbusiness, like growing vegetables (tomato, pepper, onion) to complement their\nincome as well as make wise use of available labor and land at their\ndisposal.\xa0 '], ['This hopeful feeling is shared widely by many other such project beneficiaries. The happy charming faces of the youth at the sites are the first indication of the positive contributions of the project in the livelihoods. Nowadays, silkworm farming is being picked up by non-beneficiary farmers and over time sericulture will become the engine of economic and social change in the villages. They can send their children to school, build better houses and expand their business. The YESH project is at the heart of this rural transformation. Only in 2018, they produced over 2,000kg of silkworm cocoons. At the local market, 1kg of cocoon sells for ETB100, which equivalent to about US$3.50, and with improved quality of cocoons and large volume for sale, there are opportunities for export as well as local processing and value addition to cocoons for even better incomes. This further boosts the local economy. The Government of Ethiopia and development partners are taking notice of this opportunity. '], ['On 11 February 2019, a team of experts from International Trade Center and FABRIC PLUS of India paid an official visit to the project’s sericulture sites in Arba Minch and Mirab (West) Abaya Woredas. The objective was to assess progress, share experiences and to explore areas of collaboration. The visiting team met with silkworm growers and were inspired by their performance in doing the business. “I looked closely at the shapes and the size of cocoons the youth and women have produced. Fortunately, all those cocoons are the best quality. They know how to make money in the silkworm farming business. What I admire about the implementation of the project is, its approaches linking the large pool of unemployed youth with such wealth of opportunities”, said Dilip Baroah, Eri expert from FABRIC PLUS of India.'], ['Ethiopia’s economic and human development is highly challenged by rapid population growth and high youth unemployment. Currently, the unemployment rate is estimated at 14. 5%, and most of these unemployed citizens are youth.\xa0 To this end, the project is making a significant contribution in generating decent employment opportunities as well as demonstrating working models for solving such development challenges. In partnership with the Mastercard Foundation and the Ministry of Agriculture of Ethiopia, icipe has been implementing with the view to empowering the unemployed Ethiopian youth, through technology-based entrepreneurship, enabling them to have access to improved technologies and practices, financial services, tools, market linkages and resources needed to establish successful enterprises. This will result in increasing income, improving food and nutrition security as well as enhancing the health of the young people and the environment. The sericulture component of the project operates in two zones (Gamo and Wolayta) of the Southern Nations, Nationalities and Peoples Region. AS']]}]
[{'Date': 'April 8, 2019', 'Header': 'Commentary: Ogaden Basin: A mirage of wealth and a source of corporate greed \ufeff', 'news_paragraphs': [['Bashir Farah, For Addis Standard'], ['Addis Abeba, April 08/2019 – On February 27, 2019, a group of friends and I unexpectedly decided to travel to Hilala oil site without prior discussion. This unplanned journey turned to be a long trip towards Calub oil extraction site, the biggest in the Ogaden Basin which is also known as Jehdin (Jeexdin). My primary objective was to see the actual scene where the first barrel of crude oil was recently extracted. I was also very keen to understand the extent of support that the local communities around the extraction sites receive, both from the companies involved in oil extraction, the regional administration, and the federal government. It was an unprecedented golden opportunity that enabled us to acquire access to see the highly securitized oil extraction sites in the Ogaden Basin. However, at first glance, what became apparent to us was the orchestrated secrecy around the widespread marginalization which was in full display, and the large-scale destruction that could have been prevented. This observation compelled me to write this piece in order to highlight the actual situation on the ground.'], ['Without the recent political changes in Ethiopia, and the ousting of former Somali Regional president Abdi Mahmoud Omar which followed, I would certainly not have had the same access to the Calub and Hilala oil sites that I was fortunate enough to have now. Emotionally, I was intensely distraught by being a witness to a dire situation that rendered me completely helpless and made me feel as though there was nothing I could contribute. The living standards of the local communities and their desperate fight against poverty was extremely heartbreaking. Against the backdrop of their plight, we find gas reserves and oil fields without any physical production, companies that never take the plight of locals seriously, and authorities that never fully represented their communities, all contesting fraudulently in Calub and Hilala. On top of this, poor infrastructure coupled with the existence of very limited amenities worsened the situation- because while the aforementioned actors contested over billions of dollars worth of resources the communities under which these resources lie are lacking the very basic necessities in life. '], ['In more general terms, from the public perception, oil exploration means the imposition of new restrictions on the local community rather than something which will pave the way for local economic improvement. As such, among the local community, a famous saying goes “the resources in Calub and Hilala will make Ethiopia rich but will keep us impoverished” which poignantly captures the ordinary person’s thoughts around these resources based on their experiences. '], ['On June 2018, Chinese owned Poly-GCL Petroleum company conducted the first ever crude oil extraction tests in the Ogaden Basin. The inaugural ceremony of the crude oil tests was attended by federal government representatives, the then Somali Regional state President Abdi Mohamoud Omar (Abdi Iley), and senior executives of Poly-GCL Petroleum. However, the history of oil exploration in the Ogaden Basin dates far beyond the present century. It is a history which spans three successive Ethiopian regimes: emperor Haile Selassie I, The Derg, and the current government led by EPRDF. Between 1955-1991, 46 wells have been drilled in Calub and Hilala oil sites. Aside from recently discovered wells and ongoing explorations, Calub and Hilala oil exploration sites comprise of nearly 32 wells.'], ['Despite this long history, the communities living in these areas remain somewhat doubtful of the physical existence of the crude oil that has been tested\xa0just a few months ago. While they clearly witness ongoing exploration/ extractions activities past and present, their sense of suspicion arises from the sheer imbalance between the long history of oil exploration and the perceived benefits from the companies involved in such activities. In other words, if this prized resource does in fact exist- why have we not gained a single thing? Thus, from the eyes of the local community, oil discovery in Calub, Hilala and elsewhere in the region remains a\xa0fantasy engulfed with the possibility of wealth, but which remains inherently inaccessible.'], ['Over the past 70 years, there has not been a single period where one can claim to have witnessed some form of harmony between the expectations of local communities and the activities of these corporations, nor have we witnessed any tangible contributions made to the lives of those directly affected by these very activities. '], ['When oil exploration in the Ogaden Basin started in the\xa01950s, people were genuinely hopeful, smiling and congratulating one another on the discovery of oil in their villages. It was conceived of as something valuable, with the potential of contributing positively to their quality of life.\xa0After 70 years of persistent explorations, for the first time, light crude oil from Hilala site began to be extracted on a trial basis. Nonetheless, this long-awaited and eagerly anticipated event did not bring with it the same hope that news of its existence first brought to the population. This is because the mechanics behind oil extraction is virtually invisible to the public eye, what was evident however was that, just like in the past, recent extraction tests have brought no economic benefit to the local people whatsoever.'], ['Furthermore, although a quarter of the working age population of Qorahay and Shabelle zones are unemployed, there have been no attempts at job creation by the oil companies operating in the oil sites. Nor have they attempted to hire the vast number of young people on the job market within this impoverished community, instead relying on hiring from outside. Thus, it appears that the important practice of localization and contextualization of oil and gas extraction activities remain largely ignored at both federal and regional levels.'], ['For instance, the nearest village to Hilala-6 Well is Armale (Carmaale), where people are dying of hunger due to severe food and water shortages thereby having to rely on traveling long distances for this basic provision. Meanwhile, homes inside the closed-off oil fields are well decorated, ventilated, and with the availability of running-water, electricity and other essential infrastructure. Moreover, the communities residing around these sites have no access to health services, and no available roads except for those exclusive to the companies operating in Calub and Hilala. In short, comparing the residential areas for the employees of Poly-GCL inside the campuses with the homes of the local people is frankly equivalent to the comparison of heaven and hell placed side by side.'], ['As far as local communities are concerned, the situation in Hilala bears the resemblance of a dying cow milked by a stranger, and Poly-GCL’s negligence of the local community is testament to this. The Chinese state-owned company has displayed a total disregard for the lives and livelihoods of communities who reside around extraction sites, their poor living standards have been exacerbated by a brutal disruption in their particular way of life as nomadic communities who depend wholly on their livestock for survival. Oil exploration activities have essentially shrunk the lands that nomads rely on for grazing, while imposing new restrictions around the movement of animals, killing anything and anyone in sight who trespasses certain demarcated areas. It is worth mentioning that such restricted areas are made up of confiscated lands that have led to a systematic pattern of forced displacements and the loss of livelihoods.\xa0 In short, perhaps the least of the troubles brought by companies such as Poly-GCL is the thick dust that rises in the skies of Armale and Dhoobaweyn triggered by massive lorries transporting equipment. Despite the decreased visibility caused by this rising dust, and the overall decrease in air quality, it appears that this is the least of the negative consequences that the presence of these corporations has had on the ancestral homelands of the local communities concerned.'], ['Generally, oil\nexploration\xa0is considered a high-risk game. In the Somali Region, the\nrisks associated with oil extraction and exploration to the immediate community\nand the wider region has never been assessed scientifically. Moreover, not a\nsingle study has been conducted on the direct and indirect health effects of\noil extraction. According to experts in the field, oil exploration can have direct\nand indirect health effects. While direct health effects are those that result from the direct\nconsequences of oil exploration, indirect health effects\nare those that result from the presence of the highly lucrative oil industry in\nthe largely impoverished Elele and Dhoobaweyn districts. Neither Poly-GCL, nor the regional or\nfederal state have taken any measures to ensure the protection of local people\nand the environment by raising any such concerns or creating some form of\nawareness from a public health perspective. Currently in terms of health,\npeople are stuck in a stage of limbo where they seem to be caught between addressing\nthe direct and indirect health issues caused by oil extraction and the uncertainty\naround what will happen next.'], ['In summary, there are many critical concerns around\nthe Ogaden Basin, but three major factors pose particularly huge challenges:'], ['The first issue relates to the lack of transparency\xa0around extraction activities even in terms of essential information regarding the economic development and benefits for local communities, particularly around designated budget shares allocated for the development of local communities, all of which remain a completely hidden agenda.'], ['The second is the total absence of regional institutions or civil society organizations that could have represented the interest of local community and prevented the occurrence of any detrimental effects of oil exploration, in terms of both health and the environment by holding companies accountable. Essentially, neither the Somali Regional State nor community representatives have ever formally discussed these critical issues of concern with representatives of oil companies. More importantly, companies involved in oil exploration and extraction do not appear to recognize the Somali Region as an important stakeholder whose interests supersedes that of any other actors involved.'], ['The third is the pervasiveness of impunity exercised by Poly-GCL and its sister companies, and the disregard towards the most worthy stakeholders who live within the vicinity of these key sites. Poly-GCL has employed as little Somali employees as possible to perpetuate their culture of impunity. According to zonal administration records, 4,500 employees are working at Calub and Hilala. Out of these, Somalis working for Poly-GCL only make up just 50 out of the 4,5000.'], ['Between these three factors, the toughest problem to tackle is how to\nlimit the culture of impunity and lack of\ntransparency around the practices of Poly-GCL and its sister companies.\xa0'], ['Unless there is an immediate solution brought to address the practices of avaricious companies who are prioritizing profit over people, and unqualified administrators who\xa0are unwilling to respect the way of life of local people-\xa0the worsening humanitarian situation at the oil sites in the Ogaden Basin\xa0will continue to grow rapidly. The decades long exploration activities conducted by these companies have continuously served to impoverish local people while threatening their indigenous way of life, there is no telling how difficult things will become for local nomads if this situation persists.\xa0Thus,\xa0keeping in mind the dire situation of the local communities settled near the two biggest oil sites in Ethiopia,\xa0it is paramount now more than ever, to\xa0act\xa0responsibly\xa0and\xa0rethink any future engagement with the Ogaden Basin\xa0more\xa0wisely. AS'], ['Editor’s note: Bashir Farah is a PhD candidate in Public Health at Maastricht University, The Netherlands. He can be reached at bashir.y.farah@gmail.com']]}, {'Date': 'March 1, 2019', 'Header': 'New publication: Gender and agricultural innovation in Oromia region, Ethiopia', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba, March 01/2019 – Despite formal decentralization, agricultural services in Ethiopia  are generally “top-down,” claim the authors of a recently published  paper on gender and agricultural innovation. “Extension services,” they  explain, “are supply-driven, with off-the-shelf technologies transferred  to farmers without expectation of further adaptation.”'], ['Drawing on GENNOVATE case  studies from two wheat-growing communities in Ethiopia’s Oromia region,  the authors examine how a small sample of women and men smallholders  attempt to innovate with improved wheat seed, row planting, and the broad bed maker,  introduced through the Ethiopian agricultural extension system. They  also introduce the concept of tempered radicals, an analytic lens used  to understand how individuals try to initiate change processes, and  assess whether this can have validity in rural settings.'], ['As the authors demonstrate through their literature review on \ncultural norms in the region, there are powerful institutional gender \nconstraints to change processes, which can be punitive for women.'], ['Ethiopian women smallholders are particularly disadvantaged because \nthey have limited access to productive assets such as irrigation water, \ncredit and extension services. Therefore, they find it harder to \nimplement innovations. The study asserts that strategies to support \ninnovators, and women innovators in particular, must be context-specific\n as well as gender-sensitive.'], ['Read the full article “Gender and agricultural innovation in Oromia region, Ethiopia: from innovator to tempered radical” in Gender, Technology and Development. '], ['This article was first published on CIMMYT. \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'February 20, 2019', 'Header': 'News: Demolition of houses leaves hundreds in Legetafo Legedadi homeless, city mayor insists houses are illegal', 'news_paragraphs': [[' Mahlet Fasil '], ['Addis Abeba, February 20/2019 – The Legetafo Legedadi city administration, located in Oromia Regional State Special Zone Surrounding Finfinne, under the Oromia region, began demolishing more than 3000 houses as of yesterday that the city Mayor, Habiba Siraj, said were “illegally built” and were marked for demolition this week. '], ['However, home owners who have lost their houses say they have been living in the areas after having bought their properties mostly in 2008 and onward. They dispute the city mayor’s argument and say they have all legal documents including land deeds, contracts with utility facilities such as electric power, telephone and water.  '], ['“I first bought the plot in 2009 and I have moved here in 2011 when I finished building my house. I have all the corresponding documents related to this house and non of them are illegal,” Yeshi Alemseged, a resident in Ekaadallee Kebele 03 of the two and one of the home owners who has her house demolished yesterday, told Addis Standard.  '], ['Other residents who spoke to the BBC Amharic say they were there long before the town got its administrative status. Anwar Ahmed is one such resident who said he moved to the area in 1990s (Ethiopian calendar), around 1997/98. He told the news portal that when he first bought the plot from a farmer there were no infrastructure an the area was more or less a farmland.    '], ['After demolishing 48 houses yesterday, the town’s bulldozers have continued demolishing more houses today. Some 12, 000 houses are marked for demolition from the same area, according to the Mayor.'], ['The mayor insists some of the houses were illegally built in places marked for green areas, contravening the city’s ten year structural plan. In an interview with OMN, she also said some of the houses were built on areas the city administration has already acquired for various building projects such as schools and health posts, as well as houses built on buffer zones near rivers. OMN quoted the Mayor as saying that discussions took place between the two’s administration and homeowners for the last six months. In the same interview with OMN, however, land development and management deputy head of the town Mesfin Kebede admitted that there has been “gaps in the past” within administration officials who have been following the issue.'], ['Legetafo Legedadi is one of the eight towns surrounding Addis Abeba which were established by the Oromia Regional State as a new Special Zone Surrounding Finfinne in 2008. the move by Oromia regional state followed  a fast growing unregulated expansion of the city of Addis Abeba into cities and towns within Oromia region surrounding the city. The eight towns have then came under a single administration known as the Special Zone Surrounding Finfinne. AS  '], ['']]}, {'Date': 'February 18, 2019', 'Header': 'Opinion: The Sidama quest for self rule is ripe, smearing it is ineffective', 'news_paragraphs': [['\xa0Hoola Halaleho Ambaye Ogato (PhD), For Addis Standard'], ['Addis Abeba, February 18/2019 – With the coming of prime minister Abiy Ahmed and his reformist agenda, a political change has been sweeping Ethiopia like never before. PM Abiy has introduced significant transformation and his reform initiatives have been gathering pace. Optimism is high in various parts of the country challenging the hitherto incompetent and impotent bureaucracy. Nonetheless, there have been visible backlashes that have challenged, and in some cases dashed, the vistas of hope and good intentions of the new prime minister. '], ['Part of these is the fresh effort to dash the hopes of millions b framing and re-framing of the decades old Sidama question by none other than some mainstream media in no apparent difference with what we see on social media. It is becoming clear that the rising news tide seems anathema to anything and everything about the historic and constitutional facts of the quest for self-rule by the Sidama people. Some of these re-framing have taken a worrying point that ethnic prejudices and hate is stocked and fomented by the lies coming from these mainstream media as much as the lies from the dungeons of social media. Unfortunately, such enfranchisement and opacity of hate and lies are gaining traction among many who simply opt to go for sensationalized reporting. '], ['The case against the Sidama quest  '], ['Ever since he Sidama quest for regional status regained pace after a two persistent struggle particularly for the past two decades, we are witnessing a rising push back assisted by reporting on mainstream media and campaign on social media. The progress is confronted with visages of offense and suspicion while its advocates are chastised as nothing but ‘ethnic entrepreneurs’ and the demand dubbed as political apostasy.'], ['I do believe that if there are any legitimate merit based arguments that do not contradict the ultimate law of the land (the FDRE constitution) they should be brought to the open for a civilized debate and weighed in. As Socrates once said, “When the debate is lost, slander becomes the tool of the loser.” '], ['If we can have the room for such civilized debates and reflections on the question of the Sidama people, I posit, in purview of the Ethiopian constitution, there are no logical, historical, moral, anthropological, or sociological grounds to debate against the Sidama cause. '], ['As some observers have it, the destabilization of the region with various fabricated lies is a tactical approach to strip the Sidama off the call for Self administration. It is a tactical approach to drive people into violence and strip the quest off of all democratic legitimacy that is ingrained in the constitution.'], ['After the change of government in 1991, the constitution used ethnicity as a tool for administrative engineering in the context of the process of state building. The constitutionality and the legality of the Sidama question does not need a celestial revelation; anyone who is versed with the basics of the Ethiopian constitution can comprehend it. '], ['However, it is becoming apparent that the delay and/or denial of this constitutional demand for self-rule is a mockery of the constitution itself. After two decades of disciplined, and yet sustained efforts for self-administration, the process is ripe; gone are the times when the question is left for a juggler and a fortune-teller; it has been a product of a long overdue of justice. '], ['A history of struggle '], ['To give perspective, the Sidama consider their quest for regional status and self-rule as part of a continuum of a long struggle of recognition and self-rule under the leadership of various people such as: Balicha Worawo, Alito Hewano, Fissa Ficho, Takilu Yota and Wolde Amanuel Dubale, to the youth who had been murdered in daylight in Hawassa in 2002 in a brutal massacre known today as the “loqqe massacre, to the 2005 and the various struggles of the youth up until now. '], ['The most organized resistance movement was staged under the valiant leadership of the late Wolde Amanuel Dubale (Duguna Dubale) who at the height of the resistance had tens of thousands of soldiers who were operating from Somalia under the umbrella of Sidama Liberation Movement (SLM). The movement had started in 1978 GC when Wolde Amanuel (Duguna) and his followers took up arms against the Derg regime. Since then their resistance movement has been going on in different forms. Thus, the Sidama quest for recognition and self-rule is not a trendy question that popped up in post 1991 Ethiopia; rather it is an age old question that has surpassed the tenures of various governments and generations.'], ['Fast-forward, the Sidama Zonal council on its special meeting held on July 18, 2018 and based on both the FDRE constitution and the 1994 revised Southern Nations Nationalities and People’s Regional State Constitution, unanimously voted to have their own regional state. After discussing the issue, the SNNPRS on its 5th round, 8th regular meeting held on November 2, 2018 and in compliance (again) with the FDRE constitution and the regional constitution, gave a direction to hold a referendum. The letter sent to the Ethiopian National Election Board on December 21, 2018 by the Southern regional government has a subject which reads ‘Asking to organize a referendum.’ '], ['However, the inaction and the deafening silence of the Election board to execute its constitutional duty so far is creating tension among the Sidama people on the ground. Most importantly, it is also feeding into the uncertainty, leaving the age old constitutional demand of the Sidama people vulnerable to the current dangerous blackmailing by the emerging mainstream and social media. '], ['There is more resistance than pragmatism '], ['Pragmatically speaking, the Sidama quest for a regional status and the unanimous approval by the zonal and regional state councils could be a challenge for the SNNPRS. The challenge could come in various ways such as restructuring itself without the Sidama and the potential of other zones to follow suit. In fact, a couple of zones have already asked for their own regional status recently. So the potential of the southern region being fragmented is there. But this shows how the SNNPR has been put together administratively without the consent of the very people and the vulnerabilities of this arrangement to last long. That does not, however, mean that the diverse ethnic groups in the region have not lived in coherence prior to the creation of the region. '], ['But there is more push back to the Sidama quest than the concern for pragmatism. Some are arguing against it on the basis of protecting the dismemberment of the unity of the SNNPRS. However, the merit of the Sidama quest should not get approval or disapproval based on what others think are potential reasons of dismemberment. After all, unity is consent. Moreover, the whole facade of the south unity does not hold up to the scrutiny of the historic demands of the Sidama people for self-administration and its constitutional enforcement; our quest is not a quest of dismembering a region or a country. Gagging it by invoking the structural unity is a travesty of justice and honesty. '], ['The Sidama people have never been against unity and demanding for self-rule should not be framed as a contravention against unity. Our question is a question of justice, a question of being constitutional; it is a moral question as much as it is a legal one; most importantly it is a historical question. As such smearing it with organized media campaigns will not erase the existence of the question, nor should it deter the progress registered so far. It is simply ineffective. AS'], ['Editor’s Note: Dr. Ambaye Ogato is a Postdoctoral Research Fellow at the Max Planck  Institute for Demographic Research( MAxNetAging ), Max Planck Institute  for Social Anthropology department of Integration and Conflict. He can  be reaches at: Ambaye@eth.mpg.de or ambaog@yahoo.com'], ['']]}, {'Date': 'January 30, 2019', 'Header': 'News: IOM airlifts hundreds of Ethiopian migrants stranded in Yemen to Ethiopia', 'news_paragraphs': [['Sana’a / Addis Abeba, January 30/2019 – Approximately 350 Ethiopian migrants stranded  in Yemen are set to fly home this week under the International  Organization for Migration’s (IOM) latest Voluntary Humanitarian Return  (VHR) flight operation. Such airlifts resumed from Yemen in late  November last year.'], ['IOM is handling the logistics to ensure the safe departure of the  migrants from Sana’a International Airport to Bole International Airport  in Addis Abeba, IOM said in a statement. The beneficiaries started departing on chartered flights yesterday and will continue today. '], ['“There are currently limited pathways for migrants to return home \nfrom Yemen. Through the support of and close coordination with \ngovernment authorities, partners and IOM teams, we have been able to \nensure migrants can reach their countries of origin in a safe and \norderly manner,” said David Derthick, IOM Yemen Chief of Mission.'], ['“IOM will continue to prioritize return movements for migrants in  2019,” he continued. The Organization plans to assist more than 3,000 migrants with VHR services this year.'], ['IOM had previously suspended VHR airlifts after the escalation of the\n conflict in 2015. During the suspension, IOM transported migrants on \nchartered boats across the Gulf of Aden. In 2018, IOM provided VHR to \nmore than 1,000 vulnerable migrants.'], ['Unpredictable sea conditions, however, often caused delays or \nrestrictions of movement – at times forcing boats to return to \nAl-Hudaydah’s port.'], ['Humanitarian airlifts resumed in November 2018, after IOM coordinated\n with Yemeni and Ethiopian authorities to allow more than 400 migrants \nto safely return over the course of four days.'], ['Despite the ongoing conflict, Yemen’s proximity to the Horn of Africa\n means that it remains a significant transit point for migrants seeking \nlivelihoods and opportunities. IOM expects mixed migration flows to \nYemen will continue this year, affirming the importance of IOM’s \nRegional Migrant Response Plan for the Horn of Africa and Yemen.'], ['In addition to operating the VHR mechanism out of Yemen, IOM teams  provide humanitarian and protection support to vulnerable migrants  throughout the country. While efforts are made to meet migrants upon  arrival and ensure basic needs are met, IOM also provides longer term  interventions, such as health and shelter. Additionally, psychosocial  support services help those that have suffered trauma and loss during  their journey.'], ['Given the current restrictions on movement, transporting migrants out  of Yemen is especially challenging. Many of those assisted require  additional support, such as medical escorts to provide in-flight care.'], ['In addition, IOM provides specialized care for unaccompanied migrant \nchildren, many of whom were unprepared for the treacherous journey to \nYemen. IOM works closely with authorities in Yemen and Ethiopia to \nensure these children are cleared for travel and that family members are\n prepared for reunification.'], ['Upon arrival, IOM Ethiopia provides returnees with temporary  accommodation at a transit center, meals and non-food items, onward  transportation assistance and psychosocial support to those in need.'], ['Returnees in need of further medical assistance will be referred to  health providers while unaccompanied minors will receive family tracing  and reunification assistance. A few vulnerable migrants will receive  reintegration assistance through cash grants. IOM ']]}]
[{'Date': 'January 24, 2019', 'Header': 'Feature: For Women, reforms in Ethiopia bring hope and uncertainty', 'news_paragraphs': [['Haleluya Hadero'], ['Addis Abeba, January 24/2019 – It’s 6:00pm, rush hour in Addis Abeba. Melkam Getaneh, a pharmacy owner in the capital, sits in her gated house, helping her two daughters with homework, and scouring Facebook for posts about disturbances and reforms in Ethiopia. Melkam, like many other women, waits with bated breath for news about the country, which has seen massive international media coverage in the past ten months. '], ['Since Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed assumed power on April 02, 2018, his administration has freed thousands of political prisoners, allowed exiled opposition groups to come home, put an end to the decades-long dispute with Eritrea, and instituted a gender-balanced cabinet. In late October last year, the Ethiopian parliament appointed Sahle-Work Zewde, a former diplomat, as the country’s first female President and head of state. A couple days later, Meaza Ashenafi, a lawyer and women’s rights activist, was sworn in as the first female Supreme Court Chief.'], ['Although the appointments and reforms by PM Abiy has been a source of optimism for Melkam, she remains uncertain, – especially with continued communal clashes that have left some 2.9 million civilians displaced – on how events will continue to play out. “The changes are not exactly how the international media is portraying it. Actually, for those of us that are here, it is a scary situation. We don’t know what’s going to happen next,” she said.'], ['During the welcoming celebration for the Oromo Liberation Front (OLF), one of the exiled opposition parties allowed re-entry, disturbances and protests resulted in the death of many in Addis Abeba. '], ['Melkam was taken aback by opposition groups that were allowed back into the country. “I started hearing about illegal guns and weapons being found everywhere,” she said. Most of the discussions, spread across mainstream and social media, can be breeding grounds for gossip, misinformation, and half-truths. '], ['During the rally, Wenishet Zewdu, a women’s salon owner in Addis Abeba, and other businesses closed up shop, and went home. “I don’t want to live like that. I want to live in peace. It all starts with peace, then we are able to work,” she said. '], ['Her medium-sized salon, which serves an average of five customers a day, has recently seen business dwindle, and after peace and unity, she hopes tax reform, – a big issue for her and other women entrepreneurs – is on PM Abiy’s agenda. But unlike most Ethiopians who are singing the praises of the Prime Minister, Wenishet is waiting for more. “When there are concrete things done, then people can judge and praise him,” she said.\xa0 '], ['Other reforms, most notably, the appointment of women to top cabinet positions, have attracted international praise for the Prime Minister and inspired women across the country. In rural areas like Shinschico, in  southern Ethiopia, in the Kembata Tembaro Zone, where gender issues are more prominent and women are often relegated to domestic work, gender-equality is an arduous task. “There are voices that say this is now a women’s government,” said Frenesh Gobena, the owner of CK Mataseba Café & Restaurant in Shinshico. '], ['Frenesh, whose restaurant is named after her deceased\nhusband, expects the new cabinet members to represent other women in the\ncountry. “The Ethiopian government is doing things that have not been seen or\nheard before in Ethiopia. It’s been showing that women were not in power\nbecause they were lower than other people, but because they were being seen as\nweak when they were capable,” she said. '], ['Most analysts are quick to say these appointments serve as\nimportant factors in shaping ideas on women’s agency and decision-making, but\ncaution against overly-optimistic outlooks. “Women were very disadvantaged\nculturally in Ethiopia, economically for a long period, for centuries, for\ndecades,” said Dr. Temesgen Deressa, an adjunct professor of Economics at\nGeorge Washington University who specializes on the Horn of Africa, “And then,\nbringing a shining policy today will never change the situation easily, today,\nor tomorrow, or the coming five or six years.” '], ['Although impatient and hungry for more reforms, Ethiopian women, like Melkam, seem to understand changing the country will be a lengthy process. She says she might not live to see a unified, equal, and prosperous Ethiopia, but believes the possibility exists for her daughter’s future. And for other young women, like Sina Aniyo, a first-year university student in Addis Abeba, things are no longer bleak. “Abiy is teaching about love and unity, so we will wait with hope.” AS']]}, {'Date': 'January 21, 2019', 'Header': 'Analysis: food security project supports model farmers in Ethiopia', 'news_paragraphs': [['Sophie Reeve'], ['Addis Abeba/Hawassa January 21/2019 – Ethiopia’s agriculture is complex, involving substantial variation in crops grown across the country’s regions and ecologies. And although there has been significant growth in the cultivation of cereal crops over the last decade, by international standards, yields are low, and overall production is highly susceptible to weather shocks, such as droughts. As such, food security has become a serious challenge for much of the population.'], ['By promoting ‘conservation agriculture’\n(CA)-based practices, the Sustainable Intensification of Maize-Legume Cropping\nSystems for Food Security in Eastern and Southern Africa (SIMLESA) project has\nbeen working in Ethiopia, Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique and Tanzania to improve\ncrop productivity and household\xa0 food\nsecurity. The techniques promoted by the project, such as crop residue\nretention, intercropping of maize and legumes, and production of substantial\nfeed crops, are helping smallholder farmers to reduce their agricultural risks\nand increase yields.'], ['Community role models'], ['In Boricha district, south of Hawassa in Ethiopia, smallholder farmer Ermiyas Bonge used to struggle to produce reliable yields due to climate variability. However, since implementing the CA-based practices 7 years ago, he has been able to boost production and enhance his climate resilience. “I used to experience crop failure year after year because of drought,” Ermiyas says, “but, since adopting the SIMLESA technologies, I do not till my land, I retain the crop residues and I grow two or more crops together. The combination of these factors has increased water infiltration into the soil. Therefore, soil-water holding capacity and soil fertility has improved. Now, production is sustainable and we don’t have crop failures,” he explains.'], ['Ermiyas has worked with SIMLESA as a model\nfarmer for 7 years, training others in how to apply the sustainable CA\npractices. Ermiyas has been particularly active in teaching others how to\nproduce feed crops to provide to livestock as an alternative to crop residue,\nas he feels this meets a need within the community. “In dry periods, there is\nno feed, but I have been able to produce forage which I can sell to others or\nuse as feed for my own livestock, so the most important benefit from SIMLESA\nfor me has been the production of sustainable forage resources,” he explains.\n“Farmers need improved forage to adopt CA practices. Unless they have improved\nforage they don’t retain residue on the field.” '], ['Ermiyas has trained more than 100 farmers\nto produce improved forage crops, such as pigeon pea, and says around 30\nfarmers from the local community have already bought improved forage varieties\nfrom him and are cultivating the crops. A further 25 farmers have adopted the\npractice of minimum tillage to reduce soil erosion and improve the fertility of\ntheir soil. '], ['Inspiring\nwomen farmers'], ['Over 7,000 women-led household farmers have also adopted SIMLESA practices in Ethiopia. Fate Hirpho in Shalla district, for instance, has been implementing the techniques since 2011. Fate practices reduced tillage, intercropping of maize and legumes, and residue retention on her fields, explains Bedru Abdi, Country Coordinator for SIMLESA in Ethiopia. “I used to just grow maize, but with the knowledge I learned from SIMLESA, I have included beans, millet and sorghum. Before adopting the practices, I used to get 1.6 tons per hectare of maize, now I get 3.2 tons per hectare,” she says. “I have trained more than 300 farmers in the various CA practices. There are many farmers who are aspiring to be like me and who want to change their lives,” says Fate.'], ['Bedru acknowledges that accessing agricultural information and inputs is more challenging for women than it is for men due to higher illiteracy levels among women and less time to attend social engagements. However, he states, “We have a large population of women farmers and we wanted to work with a role model for men as well as women.” '], ['Furthermore, as the practices do not require the use of oxen, and because residue is retained on the fields, less fertilizer is required, Fate asserts that the CA techniques can be adopted by anyone. “The practices are easily applied because of the reduced expense and labor costs compared to traditional practices. I encourage women to take up the CA-based techniques,” she says.  AS ']]}, {'Date': 'January 17, 2019', 'Header': 'News: Nearly 36 million children in Ethiopia are poor, lack access to basic social services, a new report reveals', 'news_paragraphs': [['Addis Abeba, January 17/2019 – An estimated 36 million of a total population of 41 million children under the age of 18 in Ethiopia are multi-dimensionally poor, meaning they are deprived of basic goods and services in at least three dimensions, says a new report released today by the Central Statistical Agency and UNICEF.'], ['Titled “Multi-dimensional Child Deprivation in Ethiopia – First National Estimates,” the report studied child poverty in nine dimensions – development/stunting, nutrition, health, water, sanitation, and housing. Other dimensions included education, health related knowledge, and information and participation.'], ['“We need to frequently measure the rates of child poverty as part of the general poverty measures and use different approaches for measuring poverty. This requires all stakeholders from government, international development partners and academic institutions to work together to measure, design policies and programs to reduce child poverty in Ethiopia,” said Biratu Yigezu, Director General of Central Statistical Agency.'], ['The report adapted the global Multi-Dimensional Overlapping Deprivation Analysis (MODA) methodology and used information available from national data sets such as the Ethiopian Demographic and Health Surveys of 2011 and 2016. MODA has been widely used by 32 countries in Africa to analyze child well-being. The methodology defines multi-dimensional child poverty as non-fulfillment of basic rights contained in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and concludes that a child is poor if he or she is deprived in three to six age-specific dimensions. The report’s findings have been validated through an extensive consultative process involving the Ministry of Women, Children and Youth, National Planning Commission, the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs together with the Economic Policy Research Institute, among others.'], ['“Children in Ethiopia are more likely to experience poverty than adults, with distressing and lifelong effects which cannot easily be reversed,” said Gillian Mellsop, UNICEF Representative in Ethiopia. “Ethiopia’s future economic prosperity and social development, and its aspirations for middle income status, depend heavily on continued investments in children’s physical, cognitive and social development.”'], ['The study finds that 88 per cent of children in Ethiopia under the age of 18 (36 million) lack access to basic services in at least three basic dimensions of the nine studied, with lack of access to housing and sanitation being the most acute. The study reveals that there are large geographical inequalities: 94 per cent children in rural areas are multi-dimensionally deprived compared to 42 per cent of children in urban areas. Across Ethiopia’s regions, rates of child poverty range from 18 per cent in Addis Abeba to 91 per cent in Afar, Amhara, and SNNPR. Poverty rates are equally high in Oromia and Somali (90 per cent each) and Benishangul-Gumuz (89 per cent).'], ['Additional key findings from the report indicate:\xa0'], ['High disparities across areas and regions of  residence in terms of average number deprivations in basic rights or  services. For example, the differences in deprivation intensity (average number of deprivations in basic rights and services that each child is experiencing) between rural and urban areas are significant; multi-dimensionally deprived children residing in rural areas experienced  4.5 deprivations in accessing basic rights and needs on average compared  to 3.2 among their peers in urban areas;'], ['Given their large population sizes, Oromia, Amhara, and      SNNPR regions are the largest contributors to multi-dimensional child deprivation in Ethiopia. These three regions jointly account for 34 of the 36 million      deprived children in Ethiopia, with Oromia having the highest number at      16.7 million, SNNPR at 8.8 million, and Amhara at 8.5 million. Regions      with the lowest number of poor children are Harar at 90,000, Dire Dawa at      156,000, and Gambella at 170,000.\xa0'], ['Although there has been progress in reducing child deprivation, much more remains to be done. The percentage of  children deprived in three to six dimensions decreased from 90 per cent to  88 per cent between 2011 and 2016 and the average number of deprivations  that each child is experiencing decreased from 4.7 to 4.5 dimensions  during the same period.'], ['Most children in Ethiopia face multiple and overlapping deprivations. Ninety-five per cent of children in Ethiopia are deprived of two to six basic needs and services, while only one per cent have access to all services. Deprivation overlaps between dimensions are very high in rural areas and among children in the poorest wealth quintiles.'], ['The report makes the following recommendations: '], ['Speed up investments to reduce child poverty by four per cent each year for the next decade if Ethiopia is to achieve the Sustainable Development Goal on poverty reduction; Accelerate investments in social sectors prioritizing child-sensitive budgeting at the national and regional levels to enhance equality and equity; and Improve collaboration among different social sectors to ensure that the multiple needs of children are met. UNICEF Ethiopia ']]}, {'Date': 'December 27, 2018', 'Header': 'News: Ethiopia launches mobile App to help match low, middle skills workers to the labor market', 'news_paragraphs': [['Caption: Left: Among those detained in the Kingdom’s two prisons, Jazan and Aseer prisons, 450 were brought home on Dec. 10. Right: SIRA App'], ['Addis Abeba, December 27/2018 – “SIRA”, a new App hailed to put “job opportunities in the palms of migrant returnees”, was launched yesterday in Ethiopia. A\xa0 product of\xa0 collaboration between the International Labor Organization (ILO) and 251 Communications and Marketing PLC, SIRA App is part of ILO’s project “Support the reintegration of returnees in Ethiopia” that lasted for the past four years, according to a joint statement sent to Addis Standard. \xa0“Support the reintegration of returnees in Ethiopia” is phasing out with the launch of a mobile application named “SIRA app”. “The app will link returnees and employers (public and private) in the low and middle skills occupations.”'], ['The SIRA App was presented in an event organized at Hilton Addis yesterday.'], ['Addis Alemayeou during the launching of SIRA App at the Hilton Addis Hotel yesterday (Pic: ILO)'], ['“[SIRA App] is a step in helping the job situation which we know is critical; but it is also 100% developed in Ethiopia,” Addis Alemayehou, CEO of 251 Communications, told Addis Standard. '], ['According to the statement, the app “complements the comprehensive psychosocial, social and economic assistance that ILO in collaboration with the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs (MOLSA) has been providing to returnees from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, through its EU funded, “Support to the reintegration of returnees in Ethiopia” project (2015-2018).”'], ['In the week of December 10, Ethiopia’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs said it has finalized preparations to repatriate 2400 Ethiopians from thew Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Among those detained in the Kingdom’s two prisons, Jazan and Aseer prisons, 450 were brought home in the same day and 450 were brought a few days later.\xa0 The Ministry is currently repatriating some 1500 newly arrived immigrants from the Kingdom.'], ['Addis Alemayehou said that SIRA App will be the first direct connection between employees and job seekers. “Given a vast number of the target audiences have access to a mobile phone, we felt it is the ideal platform to address the challenges of connecting job seekers with jobs.”'], ['“The SIRA App aims to address the mismatch between job seekers and employers focused on low and middle skill occupations. The app will facilitate returnees and other members of the community to easily have access to suitable and decent job opportunities beyond the project life,” the joint statement further said.'], ['SIRA App, developed by young software professionals at iCog Labs\xa0 is also hailed as “a convenient and user-friendly application”. It allows employers to post vacancies and search for potential candidates, while job seekers can search or subscribe for job alerts, and upload and update their information on the platform. “The app has a user-friendly interface and adheres to platform specific UI standards provided by Apple and Google respectively, hence available on Android and iOS devices.” It also takes into consideration the educational levels of users, and supports Amharic and English languages. While it works in setting of limited internet access, the app can also be used offline, to enable employers and job seekers access previously downloaded data.'], ['Addis Alemayehou hinted that he “expects to add many of the major languages found in Ethiopia.”'], ['In her statement at the launching program, Ms. Aida Awel, Chief Technical Advisor, ILO Country Office for Djibouti, Ethiopia, Somalia, Sudan and South Sudan and for the Special Representation to the AU and ECA said: “We are confident that this application will address the gap in the demand and supply side of low and medium skilled labor, reduce the cost of recruitment and allow returnees to seek out employment opportunities that best suit their needs”.'], ['In addition to the mobile phone application, the job-matching and information platform is made available through a web based Siraet.com portal and a 6689 call center. AS']]}, {'Date': 'December 14, 2018', 'Header': 'Op:Ed: Pursuing transitional justice and reconciliation in Ethiopia’s hybrid transition', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], ['Illustration: John Holmes for Human Rights Watch report on Jail Ogaden\xa0 '], ['Solomon A Dersso, PhD,\n'], ['Addis Abeba, December 14/2018 – Addressing the topic of transitional justice and reconciliation in today’s Ethiopia is perhaps one of, if not, the most difficult one. Transitions, which are characterized by political and institutional fluidity and societal polarization, by their very nature, are complicated and challenging. They as such make justice and reconciliation unavoidably problematic. That is why the theme is a very delicate subject that should be handled with a great deal of principled care, wisdom and sense of responsibility.'], ['As a point of departure and to enable us all have a common framework or vocabulary, it is important that to start off by clarifying the concept of transitional justice.'], ['As aptly put in the AU Transitional Justice Policy, transitional justice refers to the various (state centric and community based) policy measures and institutional mechanisms that societies coming out of violent conflict or repression or patterns of systematically unjust power relationships adopt, through an inclusive consultative process, in order to overcome past violations, divisions and inequalities and to create conditions for both security and democratic and socio-economic transformation.'], ['Justice defined in a context of transition thus goes far beyond judicial forms of accountability and covers wide range of political, institutional and socio-economic measures required for a transition destined to establish solid foundations for just and inclusive political and socio-economic order.'], ['Before delving further into the core of the theme, it is important to make an observation on the nature of Ethiopia’s unfolding transition.'], ['The current transition is not a negotiated transition like the transition in South Africa in the early 1990s. It is not either a transition that resulted from the overthrow of the old regime like the transitions this country witnessed in 1974 and in 1991. It is rather a hybrid transition.'], ['It is a transition that resulted from the ad hoc alliance of members of society who mobilized in public protest against the prevailing regime of the ruling EPRDF and a portion of the membership of the EPRDF. It is a transition that brought to the position of leadership, and is being led by, the major reformist members of the EPRDF coalition to a position of leadership. It is a hybrid transition, which relies on the old EPRDF based regime while trying to fundamentally reform it. The feature of the transition is not without its major ramifications for the trajectory of the transition and the pursuit of transitional justice and reconciliation in Ethiopia.'], ['It is important to note that for a society in transition seeking to pursue transitional justice, it is imperative that it develops, as part of the transitional process, a well-thought out approach for planning, designing and implementing transitional justice and reconciliation. Experience from successful transitions in Africa and the world over shows that, the elaboration of such approach needs to be informed by key considerations for designing legitimate and rule-based effective transitional justice and reconciliation process.'], ['Key considerations'], ['The first of these considerations or questions is our definition of the injustice to which transitional justice and reconciliation is to be applied as a response. One form of injustice is that which results from the non-recognition of certain ethno-cultural groups or of the equal worth of such groups and the oppression accompanying it. Charles Taylor’s famous work of ‘The politics of recognition’ is worth mentioning here for a great philosophical exploration of this theme. Another form of injustice is that which result from gender oppression. Another form of injustice involves the socio-economic marginalization and deprivation.'], ['The injustice that often dominates the discourse on transitional justice results from the arbitrary use of state violence by state agents against human rights activists, political opposition actors, journalists and dissidents.'], ['The second consideration relates to the question of the injustice/s of which period. This is a question about the temporal scope of transitional justice and reconciliation.'], ['The next question is what approach of transitional justice and reconciliation to be used. In an opinion piece that he wrote on Al Jazeera using the on-going criminal investigation relating to grand corruption involving embezzlement of public funds and perpetration of human rights violations as a backdrop, Awol Allo argued that the path to reconciliation and justice should combine both criminal accountability and a peace and reconciliation process that allows for a comprehensive official investigation and a public acknowledgement of the abuses and harms done.'], ['The issue that arises here is how a transitional society determines the balance and which factors matter for putting more or less emphasis on one aspect of the transitional justice approach (let’s say criminal prosecution) than on another (truth and reconciliation or institutional reform). The African Union Transitional Justice Policy, adopted in October this year, states that ‘emphasis on one element of transitional justice should be equitable and hence not result in either impunity (by failing to ensure accountability) or full-throated revenge of victor’s justice.’'], ['In a line that eloquently captures the weight of the dilemmas involved, the late Chief Justice of South Africa, Justice Mohamed, writing for the South African Constitutional Court in AZAPO v. the President of the Republic of South Africa, put it thus, transitional justice involves a ‘difficult, sensitive, perhaps even agonizing, balancing act between the need for justice to victims and the need for reconciliation and rapid transition to a new future’. The key for success is the approach that the society adopts for addressing this dilemma that often arises during transitions. This relates to the next question or consideration.'], ['The other question that needs to be addressed in our consideration of transitional justice in Ethiopia is how to organize and administer the chosen approach of transitional justice. Experience from across the continent and other parts of the world shows that for a transitional justice approach to be not only successful for delivering its objectives but also legitimate, the process of its design and implementation has to be transparent, independent and compliant with the minimum requirements of due process.'], ['Past experience is another consideration. As we all know transitional justice is not completely new to Ethiopia. An exercise at transitional justice has been undertaken following the fall of the Derg regime. That exercise in transitional justice focused on the wrongs that happened during the Red Terror – the transitional justice mechanisms chosen involved principally criminal trials, although it also combined the use of lustration, some form of restorative justice involving the reinstating of possessions taken away unjustly and memorialization by erecting the Red Terror Museum at the heart of Addis Abeba.'], ['The limitations from the transitional justice approach of the Red Terror including the lack of even-handedness of the process and the lessons from this experience should thus inform the design and implementation of any transitional justice and reconciliation process we may pursue in the context of the current transition.'], ['The other question is the process that should be followed in initiating, designing and implementing transitional justice and reconciliation. When the transition is a result of negotiation, the parameters for pursuing transitional justice are set as part of the peace settlement. In Ethiopia’s hybrid transition, there is no agreed upon framework on how to formulate and implement transitional justice. Questions abound as to whether relevant stakeholders such as victim groups, civil society organizations and the legal community will be afforded the opportunity and platform to take part in the planning and formulation of the transitional justice process and in its monitoring.'], ['Indeed, as experiences show and appropriately underscored in the AU Transitional Justice Policy, such effective participation of the public is one of the most important success factors of transitional justice.'], ['It has been hinted earlier and has by now become clear that the nature of the transition is the other consideration that informs the choice of the form that transitional justice takes. The current transition did not lead to major bloodshed in the country. It may not be completely off mark if one describes the current transition as a bloodless revolution as opposed to the enormous blood letting that the two previous revolutions involved. Yet, it is also a transition that combines both hope and uncertainty and change and continuity.'], ['These features of the transition are not without consequences for the choice of the mechanism or the combination of mechanisms to be used for pursuing transitional justice and importantly how such mechanism or mechanisms are designed and pursued. As Awol rightly pointed out, ‘pursuing prosecutorial justice while at the same time promoting reconciliation of a highly divided society, particularly in a highly fragile (context) …requires a strategic and holistic integration of the process, as well as careful planning’.'], ['The other consideration is the objective/s or purpose for which the transitional justice and reconciliation process is to be applied. Among others, this depends on whether the focus is primarily on how to deal with the past or how to achieve rule-based democratic transformation that secures the interest of all sectors of society. This question also depends on the consideration of whether the focus of transitional justice is on perpetrators of violations, and hence punishment or on victims and hence recognition of the injustice they suffered and healing, or the political system and hence on building a system of governance based on constitutionalism, rule of law and respect of the rights of all.'], ['The final consideration is the care that should be taken to avoid the perils that come with transitions, such as emergence of new grievances and deepening of polarization. During transitions, the politics, the economy and the social structure of the state tend to be in flux. Despite the demand of transitional justice for a rule-based approach, much of the changes may involve ad hoc measures, popular but extralegal or extra-constitutional actions and purges lacking due process of the law. This is particularly the case where transitions unfold without a common framework or negotiated roadmap. Another peril that comes with transitions is the susceptibility of transitional societies to external influence in their choice of the form of transitional justice and reconciliation approaches.'], ['By way of conclusion\xa0'], ['From the foregoing exposition it is clear that transitional justice and reconciliation is not an easy endeavor.'], ['This is not totally surprising.'], ['For some of us it could be a topic, which provokes our memories of suffering, our experience of being violated and undeservedly subjected to physical and psychological violence.'], ['It could also be a topic that summons our sense of vengeance, our innate disposition of taking the law into our own hands, our retributive desire of meting out on our tormentors and their real or perceived associates the pain and suffering we endured.'], ['It is also a subject, which is not always amenable for an easy and neat identification of responsibility. After all, the failures that resulted in the wrongs of the past are not simply products of individual culpability. Rather, they are in the main outcomes of societal and institutional pathologies, including a tradition of intolerance to and violent repression of dissent and political opposition, patterns of authoritarianism and patriarchal chauvinism, among others.'], ['It is also a subject that necessitates all at once the act of cursing and exorcising the wrongs of the past, acknowledging the suffering that those wronged endured, while allowing room for showing magnanimity to those willing to own up their responsibility and culpability.'], ['If pursued within legitimately established and internationally accepted parameters, transitional justice and reconciliation is also a subject that affords those who were wronged (victims, or to use a more empowering language, survivors) the platform and opportunity to tell their stories in public, to have their suffering get public acknowledgement and thereby enabling society to establish a record of the wrongs of the past through the voice of survivors and to learn lessons for avoiding the conditions that make the perpetration of such wrongs possible.'], ['It is also a subject that offers society as a whole the occasion to see itself on the mirror, examine its various flaws, scars and violent divisions and apply the necessary corrective measures for removing the flaws, fully healing the scars and wounds and for mending the divisions among the members of society that the wrongs of the past sowed and nurtured.'], ['As various sections of the public reflect on how to deal with the wrongs of the past and create the conditions for a better future that forestalls the recurrence of such wrongs, it is imperative that the foregoing considerations inform these reflections and the choices or decisions being made (or yet to be made) on the scope, form and implementation of transitional justice in Ethiopia.\xa0This is possibly a major issue that stands to shape the success of the current transition in charting a political and socio-economic order that is more enduring, stable and just than the previous transitions the country has experienced. AS'], ['Editor’s Note: Dr Solomon A. Dersso is Commissioner the African Commission on Human & Peoples’ Rights, Adjunct Prof, AAU, and Founder of Amani Africa.\xa0The views in the article are not attributable to any of the institutions to which the author is associated. ']]}]
[{'Date': 'September 4, 2018', 'Header': 'Opinion: Abiy Ahmed’s candor and why it matters. An observation of a rural student', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], ['Mohammed Girma, For Addis Standard\n'], ['Addis Abeba, September 04/2018 – In the last few days, Abiy Ahmed, the Ethiopian Prime Minister, did two things that are remarkable – which, I fear, could disappear into the speed and vastness of his reform effort. Firstly, the Prime Minister, along with the Addis Abeba deputy mayors, Takele Uma and Dagmawit Moges, visited Emahoy Adugna Guta, a frail old lady who is living in a leaking shanty house, not very far from his office. Emahoy was not expecting a visitor; certainly not someone from the highest office in the land. But, they walked in – totally unannounced. \xa0Not surprisingly, it took PM Abiy some convincing to help Emahoy Adugna believe that the person talking to her is the Ethiopian Prime Minister. Her immediate reaction was, “Wait, why did you do this? I could have died of a heart attack”. In a typical Ethiopian fashion, she shared her meal with all of them, and PM Abiy called her “my neighbor”. He then initiated the rebuilding of her house, and the youth in the area followed suit.'], ['Secondly, he invited young kids from a very poor background to his office and provided them with school materials for the new school year. The kids might run out of those materials in a few months. However, he offered something that would stay with them for the rest of their life: a very candid story of his own upbringing. “In your age”, he said, “my life was not very different from yours”. “I was brought up in a poor family”, he continued, “so, I didn’t get clothes whenever I want, or even schooling material whenever I needed”. He told the students that he had to walk each day very far because there is no school in the village he was living. “However”, he reminded them, “I had a strong conviction that I could overcome those challenges. Such a conviction, coupled with hard work, has got me where I am today”.'], ['As I said elsewhere, Abiy came to the Ethiopian political scene as an educator-in-chief. He brought a relatively abstract social concept of “medemer” – what could now be considered as an Ethiopian philosophy of togetherness – to Ethiopian political discourse. The two acts can be seen as concrete translations of his philosophy – the togetherness that bridged age and social class. These practical examples matter, especially to those young minds.'], ['Anger and inspiration '], ['Abiy’s candid story reminds me of my own struggles as a kid who was brought up in a very poor village in Southern Ethiopia. Life in this village was cyclic. Things, including seasons and social behavior, flow in a predictable rhythm. As children of subsistent farmers, we were bound to repeat the same pattern of life. Education was the only thing that could disrupt the predictable flow of life. Therefore, education, for me and my peers, was a form of rebellion – rebellion to find our unique individuality. We saw it as a way of ensuring we exist as individuals. We wanted to exist without subscribing to cultural practices imposed on us, without reciting our seven forefathers to find our place in the community (a usual practice in my culture) and without succumbing to religious categories shoved down our throat before we’re able to ask the question of “what?” and “why?”. Education, therefore, was a liberating, but a risky venture. However, we needed an inspiration. Then, we found Watumo – the first college graduate (to my knowledge) from the area. I have never met him to this day. He was like a mythical figure. We were told that he has joined the elites in Addis Abeba, a place we could only hope to see one day.'], ['Then, we had Mengistu Hailemariam at the helm of power. I was too young to fully appreciate the political complexity of the time; but my memory of Mengistu\xa0 as a kid was that he was an angry person. One of the dramatic demonstrations of his anger is a sight where he throws a bottle full of red substance at the famous Mesqel Square to symbolize the blood shade of his enemies. As an angry leader, he set an example. Anger, therefore, permeated the social fabric of the nation. Anger became a culture.'], ['The culture of anger threatened the aspiration of myself and my peers in myriads of ways; but suffice to mention just a few. Firstly, like the Prime Minister, we used to walk to school for two hours (four hours back and forth) a day – all the way from Hagge to Bobicho. No shoes for our feet. No lunch box. Worse, when we were late for flag hoisting ceremony in the morning, we knew an angry head teacher with a stick in hand is waiting for us. We will join the class tired but also physically and mentally bruised. The contagion of anger also affected teachers in the class. I remember being flogged by my mathematics teacher because I gave him a wrong answer. Since that day, I harbored fear and resentment towards the teacher as well as the subject. I reconciled with my former teacher later on when we met each other on a different platform; but my hostility towards mathematics is still there.'], ['Senior students also found glamorous side to anger. It was taken as a means of getting attention, and a tool of exercising dominion over the juniors. Nuramo was a senior student from our village. He was a bulky and muscular figure. Our parents entrusted him with the responsibility to look after us, especially when we leave for school before dawn, and when we return home after dusk. Yes, he did protect us from external attacks (i.e. wild animals and boys from other villages), but he often subscribed to anger to solicit unconditional obedience from us. He had an abysmal Amharic language skill, I remember, but none of us dared to correct him. In fact, at times, we had to repeat the same mistaken grammar because we feared that he might take our relatively correct Amharic as a critique.'], ['Even with these multi-layered challenges, the story of one individual inspired some of us to escape the cycle and find our individuality.'], ['Restoration'], ['Ethiopia has seen enough anger – anger that consumed generations, and laid talents to a waste. The TPLF-dominated regime of EPRDF did not change this culture in the past 27 years; it only added tribal flavor to it. Far from perfect, Abiy has proven that he is a human in every sense of the word. He had his moments of slip-ups, and there will be more. However, in him, Ethiopia has seen signs of grace and generosity that sustained the country despite political malaise. His personal story is an example of discipline and hard work. \xa0We can debate his political ideology and the trajectories of his policies. Equally important, however, are the values he has brought to Ethiopian politics. In the moments of national fragility, Ethiopia needs the value of showing solidarity with the weakest and strangers. In times of despair, struggling kids need an inspiring storyteller who would say with candor, “I have been where you are; but I made it to the top”. True national restoration requires more than the right political ideology and fitting policies. It also demands being intentional about transforming the value system. AS'], ['Editor’s Note: Mohammed Girma has a background in social and political philosophy with a special focus on religious nationalism. Girma is the author of Understanding Religion and Social Change in Ethiopia (Palgrave Macmillan 2012); co-editor of Christian Citizenship in the Middle East: Divided Allegiance or Dual Belonging (JKP, 2017), and the editor of The Healing of Memories: African Christian Response to Politically Induced Trauma (Rowman & Littlefield, 2018). He tweets at @girma_mohammed']]}, {'Date': 'August 21, 2018', 'Header': 'The Interview: You cannot have a democratic country without holding free and fair elections: Jawar Mohammed', 'news_paragraphs': [['\xa0'], [''], ['Addis Standard’s Ephream Sileshi sat down with Jawar Mohammed, Executive Director of Oromo Media Network (OMN) '], ['Excerpts:'], ['\xa0Addis Standard: What does it feel like to be back home after all those years in exile?'], ['Jawar Mohammed: Victorious. It was a sign that we did it. We were fed up with repression, we were sick and tired of tolerating discrimination, the dictators were so disrespectful; they weren’t only repressive they were also disrespectful to our people. So we wanted to liberate ourselves and spent enough time planning and strategizing to make sure that the protests were not in vain. So my return was made possible as a result of this bitter struggle.'], ['AS: You’ve been here for the last few days now. How would you assess the mood of the country? Is it as victorious?\n'], ['[There is] a lot of excitement. The euphoria is subsiding a little bit but people are very excited, people have started to enjoy freedom. But I also see some concern, to be honest; I have a feeling of anxiousness because of security problems in some parts of the country. We have government officials who are a bit confused about things because they know how to dictate and now they have started to learn how to govern democratically. I sense some confusion among the people too. They know how to live under the rule of the gun and now they have to learn how to live under the rule of law. I think part of the security problems I see in some parts of the country may be linked to the abuse of that freedom. But over all, it is quite a significant change. It is an exciting time for the country.'], ['AS: It is clear that there is a general understanding of how the country came to be at this exciting time, to use your own word; but it is safe to say that where it is going is anybody’s guess. In your perspective, where do you think we are headed now? What do you think is the road ahead?'], ['I think [through the protests] we have completed phase I successfully. This phase was to change the government either through reform- through internal change- or by bringing it down. Our plan A has always been to empower the OPDOs, to search and empower the brighter and more democratically oriented individuals and groups within the party, and that has worked. It is a dream come true that the government was not brought down, but it has been transformed. Because if the government collapsed in a situation where there is different social polarization, in a situation where one group has dominated for far too long that the institutions have become synonymous with one party, such a change through revolution carries a lot of risk.\xa0 So it was a successful plan. I’ve been talking about this for years – to empower the OPDO and ANDM to muster enough muscle so that they can take power from the hegemonic grasp of the TPLF and they did it. So phase I is complete. The resistance part of the struggle is complete.'], ['The second part is the governance part, which also has different phases. The first phase is actually to ensure that the transition to democracy is smooth. Part of this is to open up the sphere of politics. That has been done quite significantly by the reformists who are now in charge due to the persistent protest by our people. The prime minister has done a lot in both releasing political prisoners, in opening up the politics so that the opposition from outside and inside can come, and allowing the media to operate here. I think liberalizing the political sphere has worked quite well. But that is not enough; there is a lot of work to be done. You cannot have a democratic country without free and fair elections. The government is lagging behind in terms of preparing the ground to hold free and fair elections. In fact both the government and the opposition parties are lagging behind. So the immediate task should be for them to sit down and discuss on how to reform the electoral law, how to reorganize the electoral board from top to bottom. There are also other side issues that are very important. For the political leadership to develop a sustainable game plan, there has to be\xa0 stability in the country. The leadership needs to have a stable presence of mind, they have to focus.\xa0 Sporadic conflicts flaring up here and there are proving to be quite difficult for them. So the citizenry and people like me have to help in stabilizing the country. Stabilize the country and then transition to democracy.'], ['AS: You talked about “phases” of the protest movement and said “phase I” as having been completed with the empowerment the OPDO and ANDM. As someone who has been a part of this resistance, can you help us understand what you mean by these phases?\n'], ['As I said earlier we had two plans.\xa0 Plan A has always been to use civil resistance to lead toward the birth of reformists within the ruling party and we have been working on this for almost 10 years by identifying and recruiting people within the OPDO first and within the ANDM next. So to go back to the point of phases, phase I was about resistance politics. One could wage resistance politics in different ways. One can pick up a gun and go to wage armed struggle;\xa0 one can empower the citizenry to rebel and take control of the palace through mass action; or one can use civil resistance as a way of inducing change within the government itself. Dictatorships can collapse in three ways. One is some faction from a given ruling party comes up and says “we’re tired of dictating, let’s liberalize, let’s democratize”, which is a top down change. The second is when the opposition, the people …muster enough energy to rebel and destroy a given ruling party through revolution. The third is when power is negotiated as a result of\xa0 sufficient resistance from the wider public, but [in the event that this] resistance falls short of toppling down the government. Such resistance forces a given regime to start rethinking and it creates two sides within the government: reformists and hardliners. When the reformers get stronger than the hardliners, they take power and they start reforming. That is what happened in Ethiopia and the alliance between the reformists within the OPDO and the ANDM was made possible through this resistance politics.'], ['Phase II is about governance politics, about establishing democracy and consolidating that democracy. So we have completed phase I, which is toppling a dictatorship. And these changes were made possible by the persistence of the protests which necessitated the strong alliance between OPDO and ANDM. Now this alliance is in between toppling a dictatorship and establishing democracy, which means the country is in transition. In October of 2016 I said “Now Ethiopia has to start talking about transitional politics”. A lot of people thought what I said was we should establish a transitional government. No. Transitional politics is about thinking how we are going to jump from this side of the river to the other side. Now we are on the river. If the hardliners had their way, probably in December of 2017, they could have tried to push it back to the old days. They didn’t do it because the protesting public showed their determination to end the tyrant that the EPRDF was in no uncertain terms . So the changes since then means the train is now passing over a bridge and the conductor of this train is prime minister [Abiy Ahmed].'], ['But we should not forget that the completion of phase I means we are in a very precarious situation where there are only a few options at hand. The way I see it, the prime minister himself has two options. One is to drive straight to the place where democratizing Ethiopia takes place. The other is to try and hold the brake. If he holds the brakes, the train will fall off and that will probably lead the country to disintegrate before it transitions to democracy. That’s why I said we are in this precarious situation. I know that a lot of people are saying\xa0 “Let’s have a transitional government”. I say No. The current prime minister is already a transitional prime minister and what we have is a transitional government. This is no longer the EPRDF we knew. This is almost a new party governing the country right now. But that is not enough. The interesting thing that is happening right now is that we have liberals and reformists in power but they are not elected. They enjoy a huge support, but that support has not been quantified through elections. So we have to go back to the drawing board – facilitating free and fair elections – so that people can decide and say “hey guys, you’ve done a good job. Continue to govern us” or “You know what, you have been with those old people, we don’t trust you much, let’s give it to some other people.” Election has to take place. Unless preparations are underway to hold a free and fair election, there is still a risk of instability and a risk of, also, falling back to an authoritarian system.'], [''], ['AS: But there must be several layers of factors which could potentially derail the current changes than a Prime Minister holding the brakes. What do you think of other factors?'], ['Of course there are several layers of factors. The first is remains of the old regime. They are still struggling to accept the reality. I knew they were done in October of 2016 [following the Irreecha tragedy].\xa0 In fact, many of us who were participating in the protests in one way or another knew this government’s end was written all over the walls two years ago in August 2016 during the Grand Oromo Rally. Before that there were protests here and there, there were lots of doubts whether it was a movement or a protest. We had discussed with the government that the protests would be absolutely peaceful and that they should restrain their forces. They didn’t restrain. That day [August 06, 2016] was very important for us because we realized that now we have built a movement, a national movement. A unified, national and a disciplined movement. That we have enough gas in the tank to go the full mile. This happened in August and in September the reformists took over the OPDO. They staged a coup, a soft coup, and took over the party’s leadership. But in October of the same year the hardliners caused the Irreechaa tragedy. It was a huge mistake because that showed the Oromo people that this dictatorship was not to be tolerated any more. But even as late as December [2017]\xa0 they were still day dreaming – going into deep reform sessions and all. They didn’t realize that the reformists have actually taken over the government structure. What happened after December was really a formality.'], ['Coming to the present, we all know that those remains of the old regime are not really organized, they aren’t really a group, but we know at the same time that they are well resourced; they have huge resources inside and outside the country and can possibly sabotage the ongoing reform. I don’t think they want to or aspire to take over power, but they want to make sure that this transition isn’t successful. They’re are different groups from across the board. Some of them think if they can create enough problems in different parts of the country, it will keep the new leadership busy putting out fires rather than focusing on redistributive justice or holding them accountable. take for example the worsening border conflicts in Somali and Oromia regional states, which are definitely and clearly the work of disgruntled generals and intelligence officers. The other is they probably want to spread lawlessness. Not only spreading lawlessness also manipulate the economy, creating further chaos from which they can benefit.\xa0 When you combine insecurity with lawlessness and economic collapse you have a full blown crisis. And that will lead people to say “We need peace not freedom with this kind of insecurity,” which would in tern allow the armed forces to step in and even stage a coup d’etat – the same like they did in Egypt. This is one potential factor.'], ['The second is a natural occurrence. After decades of dictatorship, the people feel they have now won. There is a euphoria in the country. Under dictatorships people obey orders from the government because of their fear of guns and the coercive power of the state. In a democracy people obey the government because they respect the rule of law. But now we are at this stage where the rule of gun has been defeated in the streets; it has been further de-legitimized by the reformist leadership. However, we haven’t developed the rule of law yet. So people are in-between. So you have these young people who have been so good at dismantling a government but are yet to be trained to focus on building a government. You have a situation where the society itself, to some extent, is contributing to instability and this condition in the society is being exploited by, particularly, the old intelligence branch of the government. So yes, there are several factors than a prime minister holding a break.'], ['AS: When you say a people accustomed to obeying “orders from the government” is it equivalent to saying Ethiopians are not acquainted with the concept of being democratically governed?\n'], ['It’s not about being acquainted with democracy or not. What happens is, one day there is a gun that holds you down, the next day there is this freedom with no clear line. Take for example the problem in parts of the Harari or Oromia regional states and elsewhere where young people just stop you and frisk you. And in Amhara regional state some are using misinformation and disinformation to agitate the young people to go out and destroy cities and burn things down.Why do they do that? Most of them do it because they are worried about security in their own areas. It used to be that they don’t trust the police. But now, they don’t obey the police because the police used to brutalize them. It is worth recalling that the Prime Minister, in his attempt to end police brutality, repeatedly said the police should not beat people. So that created a situation where the police are just standing by because they are confused. Law enforcement in this country is traditionally defined by a one way brutality. Now the law enforcement agents don’t seem to know where coercive power needs to come in; hence this confusion. In the past, a police officer was the law. Him and his AK47 were the law. Now that doesn’t work. So, it is not because the society isn’t acquainted with democracy, it is just that we are going through a period in which the line between rule by the gun and rule of law is not clearly demarcated. Which lines are to be respected, which lines are to be tossed. That was what I was telling to the young people in my message at the Millennium Hall and during my trip to Ambo. I was telling them “We’re done with the resistance part, we need to move to the governance part.” But I think in general such period of uncertainties are a normal situation. Young people are impatient and nervous. That always happens.\xa0 But despite such drawbacks the political leadership needs to sit down and calmly develop the rules of engagement, there has to be peace and stability in the country and part of that is for the people to obey the law, and for the government to ensure there is rule of law. And when we say ensure rule of law it doesn’t mean for young people to start frisking people or start collecting taxes like they’re doing in some places.'], ['AS: But as much as many would love to see the youth to go back home and leave the politics to politicians, do you think the Ethiopian intelligence apparatus is reformed enough, or democratized enough to handle monopoly on violence yet?\n'], ['Not yet. I don’t think the youth should leave politics. No, they shouldn’t. They are the vanguard of the revolution. I don’t trust any of these security and intelligence guys. I don’t trust any government official, for that matter, even if it is my mother’s son. I trust the people. I trust organized people. In Ethiopia the only effective, organized and proven force for change is the youth in different parts of the country. They have proven themselves to be effective. Without the youth remaining vigilant, there would be a problem; there is no guarantee that we’d transition to democracy. However the youth need to start transitioning from trying to take down the government, i.e. resistance politics, to building one. Resistance politics is about taking down a repressive government structure. An activist working against a dictatorship and working against an elected government is different. In dictatorship you’re trying to bring down the government itself. In democracy you’re trying to hold the government accountable. You’re trying to force them to be more effective. You campaign against corruption, you campaign against wastage of resources, you campaign for equality, more inclusiveness and so on. So the youth now, in this period during the transition, they have to restore peace. They have to restore peace not because they are scared of the state. Restoring peace is very important for themselves because they fought so bitterly to establish a democratic government. The youth are a social movement; they are part of the civic society. Democracy, at the bottom level, is built by the civil society but at the top level it is the product of a political contract among political elites. People like me and the youth can pressure, we can create an incentive for the political parties, but the political parties have to develop the rule of the game. The electoral law and all kinds of power sharing, have to be clearly defined. But they can’t do that if the country isn’t stable. That is why the youth have continue to stabilize the country for their own sake and not for the sake of the government.'], [''], ['Is the intelligence branch reformed? No. The military is reformed to a certain extent; there is no problem. The military had minimal problem even in the past. The bulk of the army at the bottom has always been on the people’s side. Because of that it has been easier to reform the military than the intelligence. But the intelligence was almost entirely from top to bottom controlled by one party. So, the human intelligence aspect in itself, training new agents or transforming the existing agents into agents loyal to democratic institutions is going to take some time. Efforts have started. I think the new chief of intelligence, General Adem Mohamed, has been quite effective in opening up the intelligence services to public scrutiny and making it abundantly clear that for example if you’re a party member you cannot be a part of intelligence operations. I think the message has been there. It is very important to tell it clearly that way. But I think it is going to take them a few years to develop a competent, independent, professional intelligence services. The technical intelligence is easier, I think because Information Network Security Agency (INSA) was incompetent and ineffective. They were trying to hack us, we used to hack them. They were really vulnerable. So, INSA was an exaggerated mess. It was a corruption power house filled with people who don’t know anything about modern technology. So since it is not really a well established, sophisticated institution, reforming it and replacing it doesn’t require much. They just need to bring in new hardware and new experts and I think there are a lot of young people these days who are good at these technologies. But the human intelligence is where they are going to need some more time. I want to tie back to what I was saying earlier. Even for the government to undertake full reform of the intelligence and the military, stability is very important. If there is no stability, the government is going to be more dependent on the old system. Until they recruit and replace the old system with a new ones, if there is conflict here and there they still need intelligence, they still need information and their option is to go back and rely on the old system and that makes them vulnerable to manipulation by the old guards who will resist. Despite quick reforms within the military, we should also remember that some parts of the military, some of the generals, are behind the conflicts in Ethiopia; I am 100 per cent sure of that. The reason they do that – and they do it everywhere, not only in Ethiopia – is because they want to show that a country cannot exist and function without them and the government will be more and more dependent on them.\xa0 That is why at this very moment stability is essential and all of us concerned with consolidating this change should help the government maintain this stability.'], ['AS: Assuming there will be free and fair elections in two years as scheduled, what sorts of political alignment and realignments do you expect to see to make sure that the sacrifices made by the youth, particularly the Qeerroo, will not have been in vain?'], ['I think the first is for the government to acknowledge that this is a caretaker government. Its only obligation is to take the country from one side to the other. The youth (the Qeerroos, the Fano and Zerma) have brought down the dictatorship and given them the ball to carry to the other side. They have to internalize that. They have to accept that. They are not a long term government. The prime minister hesitated to utter the word ‘election’ for a while, but now he has, on multiple occasions, said that his major obligations were to make sure the next election is free, fair and competitive. I think that is a major commitment. He has to follow through. In Ethiopia, particularly the youth, no longer take words, they want to see actions. And part of that action is for the government to start sitting down with the opposition to negotiate on electoral reforms, on the election day; charting out media freedom, access to media, access to state resources, creating strong civil society, etc. They have done quite a bit in negotiating with the opposition on some minor issues. For example, negotiating with Patriotic Genbot 7 and the OLF leaderships to come home and participate in peaceful political struggles; these are important steps for peace and stability, but not so important for the election. What concerns me right now is they have brought all these organizations from the diaspora and elsewhere, but they haven’t created the rules of engagement. It’s like bringing all 16 of the Ethiopian Premier League teams into a stadium, throwing them one ball and telling them to play. There are no lines, the goalpost isn’t clear, there is no referee, it’s chaos. Right now, the people coming from abroad are also just making up for what they missed for years. Sooner or later they’ll start acting. They’ll start agitating people. But you can’t have these many political organizations without clear rules. And those clear rules cannot be handed down by the government alone. They have to sit down together and draw those lines.'], ['For the opposition parties to be effective, they must also understand that business as usual isn’t going to work anymore. You can’t just sit down in one month, write a press release, curse the government and say victory to the people. That’s not going to work. We have changed that. One of our biggest contribution through the four years protests was to transform Ethiopian politics into action-oriented politics, a politics guided by strategy. Politics with strategy followed by dedication and commitment and hard work. If the opposition parties think they can beat this government by waiting until the election comes and filling in candidates, they are wrong. What the opposition needs to do now is one, push the government to sit down with them to negotiate on election and related matters. And two, organize and strategize; they need to revise their own policies, they need to become modern. Some of the parties are still stuck in the politics of the 1960s and 1970s. In 2018, you can’t win with a strategy you had in 2005 or even in 2015. You are going to have to have an election strategy for the future, not for the past. That strategy means organizing at the grassroots level and devising a policy alternative that doesn’t only criticize the current government’s policy failures but also provides an alternative road map. That requires a lot of intellectual work. They have to have leaders who are charismatic enough, and who are hardworking. They should also consider merging together or create a coalition. Oromos alone have 15 or so parties and many more in the rest of Ethiopia. Those things have to change.\xa0 I don’t care who becomes the next prime minister; I care about the process. The process matters. If we get the process right, If we have a consensus on the electoral law, on the electoral board and if all parties are committed to accepting the outcome of the election, then I’m quite comfortable. Also, once you have developed the rule of the game, and once you’ve set the date for election, the political market place starts to heat up and that’ll encourage political parties to start working, to start forming alliances or develop their election manifestos. That’s why I have been focusing on this and talking about this, irritating the current leadership.'], ['AS: You seem to be quite confident on the Qeerroo’s ability to make sure that the process of democratization goes smoothly in Oromia. But what about other parts of the country? Does it worry you that the lack of organized movement like Qeerroos in other parts of the country will hurt the rest of the process?'], ['That doesn’t worry me. The good thing about non-violent movement as opposed to armed struggle is that non-violent movement produces a result but doesn’t control that result. Today what started by the Qeerroo and was picked up by the youth in the rest of the country, especially in Amhara regional state, but also in the south and the east, the whole country is seeing light at the end of the tunnel. The promise of opening up of the press, and the opening up the political space is happening in almost all parts of the country. Armed struggle has a strong control over society. Another observation I have is that people in all regions of the country are sick and tired of dictatorships. They want to move forward. They might fear and say ‘Oh, Oromo domination is going to come’, but ultimately they do want to be governed by an elected government; they do want to enjoy freedom, they do want to enjoy peace among themselves and with their neighbors. For now, I think almost all regions are committed to preserving the federal government. I have observed that secessionist movements have really decreased across all regions. These people have realized that flirting with secessionist ideals is not the best way to go about. Abdi Illey’s nonsense in Somali regional state about triggering article 39 is not real. I have spoken to Somalis across the world and there is no such movement in Somali region. In the past what pushed people, be it the Oromos, the Somalis, and the Eritreans, to push for break up was because they didn’t see alternative ways of attaining their freedom; they didn’t want to live under repression; they didn’t want to live under cultural and economic exploitation.\xa0 But now, I think, those political party movements in Ethiopia simply want to democratize the current federal system. We as Oromos have a huge obligation, not only because we have been at the forefront of bringing this change, but we are the largest and we are in the middle; we must transition this country to democracy together, by making sure that everybody is represented in every step of the process. Not only in the government but also in discussions outside of the government’s context; we must bring fairness and quality to the front and center. I don’t say this for political preach; I don’t want anyone to vote for me. I say this because Oromos fought for three things. Freedom, which is democracy; the ability to develop and escape from poverty; and peace. They didn’t want a government to rob them anymore; they didn’t want a government to kill them and they didn’t want a government to shut them up. You can’t enjoy peace, development and democracy alone. Let alone in such a complex country, an island like Madagascar needs stability across the ocean to have a stable democracy. Without that we can’t do it. So, for the Oromos to keep this country together, to democratize it and to develop it is essential for our existence as a nation.And when we say we must democratize Ethiopia, it is not an act of charity for the people of Afar or Gambella or Somali or Tigray.\xa0 It is an act for our survival as a united political community. We cannot survive without democratizing the country for us as much as for the others. We paid a lot of price for what we did. In my visit to Ambo I went to a place where a lot of our men and women were gunned down for demanding the right to live in dignity and the right to prosper. I want to see development in Ambo. I want to see democracy in Ambo. I want to see peace in Ambo. But you can’t have peace and development in Ambo without peace and development next door in Ginchi. You cannot see it without peace and development in Finfinne [Addis Abeba]. At the same time you cannot have this peace, development and democracy in Finfinne without Bahir Dar and Mekelle enjoying the same. So, can we Oromos do it? Yes we can. Because we know the price of repression; we have been at the receiving end of it. Second, we are so large that even if we steal from this country, we’d still not have enough. So, for us it is very important that there is fair distribution of wealth in the country. Overall, I think we can do it. The reason we can is because we have a lot of educated people. These last four years, the Qeerroos went through college and graduated while doing resistance politics. They graduated with a lot of sophisticated knowledge in politics. You can put a mic to any Qeerroo and you’d think you were listening to a famous political analyst on Al Jazeera. They have become really good. They aren’t just active citizens. They are highly informed, articulate and operatives. So, I think we can transition.'], [''], ['AS: The role played by the TPLF, despite its obvious shortfalls, in the last 27 years cannot be underestimated. Going forward though, how do you asses the posturing of the Tigray regional state and that of TPLF’s in this journey of democratizing Ethiopia? '], ['One of the ironies of these 27 years during which Tigraryan elites were controlling the commanding height of the political and economic power is this confusion among the people of the rest of the country that the people of Tigray were benefiting. No. They weren’t. In fact Tigray region was one of the most closed regions for not only the last 27 years, but since TPLF has been the semi-de facto party that ruled the region for a good 35 years. These ruling elites have created a highly monitored, highly controlled society. In the center we often complain about censorship and political repression, but we forget that it is worse in Tigray. TPLF has also destroyed any alternative leadership except for itself. But because Tigrayans are in power in Finfinne, the people in Tigray didn’t rebel; how can you rebel against one of your own? The difference with the youth in Oromia , for example, is that, we said “they’re eating, while we look from outside the door,” so we were able to develop alternative models, alternative leadership and alternative institutions. For example, instead of waiting for the OPDO to do its job, we built the Qeerroo to protest who then forced the OPDO to transform itself. A lot of people don’t know this but when the government shutdown the space for civic societies, we went to the cultural societies and helped revive and regain our Gadaa system. You barely see this in Tigray and the little attempts were quickly and effectively crushed. That created a vacuum of strong leadership. So the lack of leadership in Tigray comes from this repressive legacy of the TPLF over the region for a long period of time and from the person the late Meles Zenawi was. He may have built TPLF but he destroyed it too. I think Sebhat Nega was right when he once said ‘Meles killed the party.’\xa0 He did, especially after the split in 2001; he killed the possibility of any leader emerging by decimating anyone who rivaled him. That left a vacuum of leadership when he suddenly died in 2012.'], ['Now Debretsion Gebremichael is the chairman. Probably not a charismatic leader, but a chairman who is considered as one of the reformists within the party. But there are fears that the old guards are completely undermining his authority to lead the party. the likes of Getachew Aseffa, Abay Tsehaye, Sebhat Nega and others have all left Finfinne and relocated in the region. This move is likely undermining Debretsion’s leadership because their priorities are trying to stop any change in order to protect their wealth and themselves from prosecution;\xa0 they have turned the region into their own garrison and there are fears that they will paralyze the new chairman from aligning the party with the reformist at the center. It’s a tough time ahead for the posturing of the regional state’s politics, I think. But on the other hand, one also sees light at the end of the tunnel; the rerun of Aregawi Berhe and his party as well as the gradual strengthening of opposition parties such as theArena Tigray by using the opening of the political space is something we should not discount when calculating the political posturing of Tigray as a region.'], ['AS: Finally, if you have one message for all Ethiopians, and to the Qeerroos and the Prime Minister in particular and to any other group you would like to give a special message to? And what is your message to prime minister Abiy?'], ['For the people of Ethiopia, don’t mess with this opportunity. For the last 50 years the young people fought against tyranny tooth and nail; they overthrew Haile Selassie I, they overthrew the Derg, but all opportunities have slipped out of their hands. All Ethiopian scholars talked of a turning point and crossroads at each of these junctions in the past, and then missed the opportunity. I hope nobody will say “a missed opportunity” after this because it will not only be a missed opportunity, it will be a mangled one. With all this resource, with all these young people, with the kind of leadership we have, with the kind of international support we have, if we don’t transition to democracy, consolidate and sustain the gains and lift this country up, it will only be because we are lazy. So, the people of Ethiopia shouldn’t be tempted with little things here and there. We need to stick together, we need to work together, and despite our differences, we need to hold our leadership accountable when it errs, and we need to maintain peace and stability to make sure that we have an elected government in two years from.'], [''], ['The Qeerroos have been an interesting experiment. They have done great work. They have proven that they can bring down one of the most brutal and strongest tyranny in Africa. A tyranny that even the west expected to last for 50 more years. I think the Qeerroos have proven themselves to be quite effective and sophisticated in dismantling a dictatorship. But now it is time for them to prove that they can build a democracy, that they can build, consolidate and sustain a multinational democracy in Ethiopia. I have been passing this message for a while now. That’s the next challenge for them but I think with proper and inclusive guidance they will do it. If they continue with the speed and sophistication and unity they proved, then they can do it.'], ['For PM Abiy and his team, their task is very simple and one: transition this country from where they took it from the youth when the dictatorship died and take it to democracy. Focus on that. On the side, of course, they’re getting a lot of help financially, and I hope the economy will recover and I am sure they’ll get support in terms of security too. I know there are internal and external factors led by some people who think they can mess with this country. They might try, but is not going to happen. I was in Nairobi a few weeks ago and I met with security officials from neighboring countries. Nobody wants to miss this opportunity. Everybody I have a chance to talk to wants to support. The international community, specially the US, is openly on board with this government and I think the west as well. Hopefully China will come back too. The biggest challenge is rather our own internal security, particularly the breakdown of rule of law in various parts of the country.\xa0 So my message is, both to the government and the people of Ethiopia at large , don’t miss this chance. AS'], ['\xa0']]}, {'Date': 'August 3, 2018', 'Header': 'Analysis: How conservation agriculture is helping Ethiopian farmers become more than subsistence farmers', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], ['CA-based practices are improving soil health and yields for Ethiopian smallholders'], ['Sophie Reeve'], ['Addis Abeba/Hawassa, August 03/2018 – Major factors limiting food production for smallholder farmers across sub-Saharan Africa include the depletion of soil fertility, soil erosion and periodic droughts due to climate change. In Ethiopia, crop productivity is further constrained by a lack of quality inputs such as improved seeds, and high prices of chemical fertilizers, which has resulted in low levels of technology uptake. Poor transport infrastructure also makes it difficult and expensive to get goods to markets. This combination of factors has led to a predominance of subsistence agriculture and low yields and incomes for Ethiopian farmers.'], ['To improve production and increase the food and income security of smallholder farmers across eastern and southern Africa, the Sustainable Intensification of Maize-Legume Cropping Systems for Food Security in Eastern and Southern Africa (SIMLESA) project is working with over 235,000 farming households to help them apply ‘conservation agriculture’ (CA)-based practices. These techniques, such as crop residue retention, minimum soil disturbance and intercropping (or rotation) of maize and legumes have been found to simultaneously boost crop yields whilst enhancing soil health by increasing moisture levels, and reducing soil degradation.'], ['Impacts for income'], ['In Hawassa Zuria district, Yohannes Gudeta, a 30-year-old maize farmer, has been applying the SIMLESA-promoted CA-based practices for the past 8 years. Introduced to the project in 2010 by researchers from the regional agricultural research institute, Yohannes provided a small plot of land on which the CA-based practices could be demonstrated and managed jointly by the researchers and himself. After a year of experimentation on his farm, Yohannes noted an important difference in the health of his soil, “They intercropped maize and beans without plowing the land, and the residue was retained on the field. The land became more fertile and had better organic matter. Secondly, because of the residue, the soil maintained more moisture,” he explains.“Per hectare, my yields have increased by 2 tons and, at a minimum, I am earning US $500 more per hectare.”'], ['Yohannes went on to adopt maize and bean intercropping, minimum tillage practices and crop residue retention across the entirety of his maize farm, which has not only helped to increase his yields, but has enhanced his nutrition and income security. “I used to grow only maize, but with the intercropping, my farm is more diverse,” says Yohannes, who also now grows enset. “Per hectare, my yields have increased by 2 tons and, at a minimum, I am earning US $500 more per hectare.”'], ['Compared to using conventional farming methods, Yohannes has saved money and labor due, in part, to the retention of crop residues on his field which return key nutrients to the soil. “I plant earlier than others in my community who aren’t using the CA practices. I can plant everything all at once – and I only plow the field once – whereas my neighbors have to plow four times. I also use less chemical fertilizer because of retaining the residue.” With more time and money available to take up other income-generating activities, Yohannes has built a hotel-restaurant business in the local town, which is managed by his wife, Hanna. He started building the hotel 5 years ago and now employs 15 people as chefs, waiters, cleaners and guards.'], [''], ['Since adopting the CA-based practices, Yohannes Gudeta has more time and money to diversify his income sources'], ['Problems with policy '], ['However, according to Yohannes, implementation of CA practices has not been without its challenges, particularly with regards to the local livestock of neighboring farmers that are free to roam across his fields during the dry season and consume his crop residue. To address the problem of free-grazing on crop stubble, national and local policy should be redesigned, says Goshime Muluneh, researcher at the Ethiopian Institute of Agricultural Research (EIAR). Without the integration of CA within agricultural policy and increased extension support, Goshime is concerned that farmers will lose out on the opportunity to improve their food and nutrition security. “National policy needs to implement CA practices…if it promotes conventional agriculture practices, farmers won’t get the benefits… Without a policy change on free grazing, one of our doubts is that CA might not be scaled out,” he says.'], ['Sustainability for SIMLESA? '], ['Dr Eyasu Abraha, former Ethiopian Minister of Agriculture and Natural Resources, is hoping to address the concerns of local researchers and encourage the implementation of CA-based practices within national policy. At an external review meeting for SIMLESA held in Addis Abeba in March 2018, Eyasu voiced his backing for the project, stating that, “SIMLESA has recently developed a policy brief on scaling conservation agriculture-based sustainable intensification in Ethiopia. I would like to assure you of the implementation of the recommendations articulated in the brief. Land is a resource we inherit from our families… I have to protect it from rain and wind erosion and maintain the soil fertility, so we have to use these CA techniques.”'], ['With increased governmental support, those working with farmers to implement the project are convinced of its positive impacts for the future, “SIMLESA is one of the best opportunities for a green economy and for future sustainable agriculture – it controls erosion and increases soil moisture,” emphasizes Mesele Haile, associate researcher at EIAR. Yohannes, as well as his neighbors who have also taken up intercropping, crop rotation and minimum tillage, is also confident in the benefits of CA and will continue to use the practices so that he can pass on a healthy farm to his children. “Land is a resource we inherit from our families… I have to protect it from rain and wind erosion and maintain the soil fertility, so we have to use these CA techniques,” he says. AS'], ['\xa0']]}, {'Date': 'July 11, 2018', 'Header': 'Opinion: Why I am not coming back home to Ethiopia after 14 years in exile', 'news_paragraphs': [['Bashir Farah, For Addis Standard\n'], ['Addis Abeba, July 11/2018 -“Why I’m coming back home to Ethiopia after 16 years in exile” was the headline of an article on AlJazeera written by a an Ethiopian Oromo seasoned journalist and political analyst Mohammed Ademo on announcing his long overdue home coming. “I want to witness firsthand how my country is undergoing massive change which was unthinkable just a few months ago,” Mohammed wrote. That was a remarkable testimony of the wind of change blowing in Ethiopia today. But a testimony no Ethiopian Somali shares. Here is why.'], ['April 24, 2007\xa0 was a momentous date for the civilians of Somali Regional State (SRS) of Ethiopia. A major attack on a Chinese Oil exploration site in the Somali Region by the Ogaden National Liberation Front (ONLF) triggered a huge military crackdown aimed at eliminating the rebel group, but ultimately escalated beyond control. While the crimes being committed in Somali Regional State can be safely likened to Darfur of the recent past, the human rights and humanitarian crisis continues to besiege the former. As early as June 2008, Human Rights Watch (HRW) had described a ‘critical situation’ as hundreds of civilians were killed,\xa0 maimed, jailed and fled to neighboring countries including Somalia and Kenya; tens of thousands were also internally displaced. Their only crime was being suspected of sympathizing with the rebel group.'], ['In less than a month, I became a victim of Ethiopia’s 2007 military campaign in SRS though I was in Addis Abeba at the time. In May 2007, outside of my dormitory room at\xa0Addis Abeba University’s (AAU) main campus-Sidist Kilo- I was making a ritual ablution for afternoon prayers as I saw one of my classmates rapidly charging towards me. I assumed he might be in a hurry to catch up on an afternoon class and therefore coming back to pick up his notebooks from the students’ residential buildings. However, when he approached me, it was an entirely different story.'], ['It was obvious that my friend’s familiar smile was absent from his face. Again, I wondered what could have possibly gone wrong. I never thought for a moment that he was worried about my life, and the imminent danger I was facing which he had just seen for himself. About few minutes later, in a low whisper he said, ‘three men from Ethiopia’s Intelligence Services are roaming around the campus asking students for your name and whether they know you in person.’ I was taken aback in horror as I had been engaged in my daily activities soon to attend an afternoon session in a favorite class of mine, completely oblivious. Of course, I was terrified, but not extraordinarily alarmed due to my familiarity with becoming a sudden victim of the brutality of intelligence services as well as overnight raids which is a norm where I was brought up in the Somali Region.'], ['Like a delicate building falling apart at the touch of a bulldozer, I saw a complete devastation of everything I had dreamt of in terms of my personal career growth, family and my community. In the summer of 2007, I was expecting to obtain my bachelor’s degree in Educational Planning and Management but devastatingly witnessed my academic career falter just three months before my graduation. Subsequently, I remained without a proper diploma and was even denied getting the academic credits which I had thus far earned from the AAU.'], ['I only had two options, to fall into the hands of the intelligence officers or to escape. I chose the latter which at the time posed the least amount of risk. However, as a student from Ethiopia’s Somali Region who left behind all his family members, fleeing from the country to an unknown destination was both a challenging and bitter experience which has remained a painful memory for me since. I had neither prior international travel experience nor enough money that would take me to a safe place. To complicate things further, I was very reluctant to share what was going on with my late older brother for his own safety and security purposes.'], ['I felt robbed of a normal life by a security system that does not distinguish between the innocent and the guilty. For me, this incident marked the end of any hope of continuing my studies and attending classes at AAU, the end of sitting and reading in my favorite place on campus and of ever returning. My only option was to immediately escape, and though a hard pill to swallow, I accepted the reality and fled the scene. I sneaked under big trees and behind student dorms like a smuggler sneaking around. From that point forward, I embarked upon a rocky and harsh journey towards safety. After several days of hardship and uncertainty, I eventually arrived in Dadaab refugee camp; the world’s largest refugee camp located in Kenya.'], ['Loss of loved ones and separation from family members'], ['I was surprised that merely assisting a journalist who was carrying out his duties legally would cause separation from my beloved family members. Because of this, I have not seen most of my family members for over 15 years. I did not know that the only older brother who invested a lot on my upbringing and education, would be punished simply because I helped a New York Times journalist on his quest to understand the internal dynamics of the Ogaden region. When the security forces failed to capture me, they arrested my brother instead and put him in Jail Ogaden, a hell on earth and a notorious prison located in Jigjiga, Somali Region. Multiple human rights organizations such as HRW have reported extensively on the abuses carried out in Jail Ogaden. Most recently on July 5th, 2018 HRW published an 88-page report specifically on Jail Ogaden documenting the constant abuse and use of horrific torture techniques, lack of access to medical care, lawyers, food and even family.'], ['I was horrified to learn that my brother was not only fired from his job but that his innocent children were also affected. Ultimately, I was most devastated to receive the news that he had died from a disease that he contracted from the unhygienic environment in Jail Ogaden which could have been prevented.\xa0 I did not anticipate that I would be denied from being with my family during such a difficult time or to participate in my brother’s funeral who was very dear to me. My story is similar to thousands of Ethiopian Somalis currently forced to live in exile.'], ['Torture and mass incarceration'], ['Tens of thousands of Somali civilians living in the south-eastern parts of Ethiopia are still experiencing serious human rights abuses, which can only be described as a looming existential threat. Torture, beatings, collective punishment, mass incarceration and a persistent economic embargo which has resulted in food shortages is a norm in the Somali Region and the everyday lives of civilians.'], ['When I compare myself to those who have fallen into the hands of the notorious law enforcement agents in the region, I consider myself to be extremely fortunate. In 2009, after taking courses on integration into Dutch society, I re-established myself, embraced my new world and continued with my disrupted studies here in the Netherlands. On 6th September 2009, I started studying a bachelor’s degree in European Public Health from Maastricht University.'], ['Dramatic changes in Ethiopia, except in SRS\n'], ['It is undeniable that the new Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed has taken very swift, encouraging and unexpected but significant political measures in just a few months. One of these dramatic changes includes the resolution that removed three rebel groups from the country’s terrorist list. Indeed, this is a positive step taken towards encouraging the peaceful promotion of various political goals in Ethiopia, paving the way for a system where basic rights enshrined within the constitution are fully protected.'], [''], ['Having said that, the newly appointed Prime Minister is not immune from criticism in terms of the government’s unchanged policy towards the Somali Region. In the eastern periphery of the country, a culture of impunity and crimes against humanity continue to persist. If not meaningfully addressed, this can amount to potentially damage the reputation of the new Prime Minister as an agent of change and reform.'], ['At this very moment in the Somali Region, mass arrests, the use of torture in detentions centers and deprivation of basic rights is common-practice. The current President of Somali Regional State, Mr. Abdi Mohamud Omar (commonly known as Abdi Iley) has been found implicated not only in orchestrating the systemic violence in the region, but actively participating in the lynching, murder and mass arrest of civilians from all walks of life.\xa0 Under his command, paramilitary forces in the region known as the ‘Liyu Police’, a special police force created in 2007, have frequently been involved in extrajudicial killings,\xa0rape, torture and violence against the people in Somali Region. Yet, there is no clear sign that the government of Ethiopia is working to hold anyone accountable for the well documented crimes committed in the region by senior officials.'], ['Yesterday, following international uproar as a result of the latest report by HRW, news started to trickle that Abdi Iley visited Jail Oganden and afterwards released all prisoners. The SRS communication bureau claimed the effort was Abdi Iley’s earlier promise to transform Jail Ogaden into a Mosque. Residents in the area witnessed the jail was cordoned off by federal security forces who freed some of the high profile prisoners including ex-Police Chiefs Yusuf Jallale, Abdirashid Adaawe and Ibrahim Diliq, deputy regional leader Abdullahi Itoobiya, and ex-Security Chief Jamil Muhumed Gas. The truth is, Abdi Iley’ had staged similar stint in February 2018, to join the foray of prisoners release by the federal government, and claimed to have released 1, 500 prisoners.\xa0 We soon learned that the “freed” prisoners were not only 1, 500, but most were rearrested after photo shots. And jail Ogaden is not the only prison SRS uses to exterminate dissidents. Currently close to 1000 ONLF members are held as prisoners in Bayahow village near Gode.'], ['Thus, at this time, my only concern is whether the plight of the Somalis for the last 27 years or so will attract the attention of the new Prime Minister whose priority is to preach “love and forgiveness.” As a concerned citizen, my demands and the demands the Somali people, the third largest ethnic group in Ethiopia, are clear and concise; injustice has prevailed in the region for far too long, so there must be accountability, and justice must be served in a region where the threat of President Abdi Iley is acutely felt in every household.'], ['In a bid to protest against this injustice in their region, Somali elders and have been in Addis Abeba for the past three months, pleading an audience with Prime Minister Abiy. The Prime Minister has yet to meet with them and listen to their concerns. Clearly, this indicates that the Somali plight is not included among the Prime Minister’s top priorities.'], ['The current condition of the Somali Region is both a tragedy and a test for Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed’s vision, core values and the new foundations he vowed to lay down to protect the inalienable rights of all peoples.\xa0 Addressing widespread injustice and ending the patronage system in SRS and ensuring peace and stability are some of the pillars of a peaceful Ethiopia. Right now, that is far from happening and that is why I am not coming home after 14 years in exile. The new Ethiopia may be making home for all its sons and daughters who were unjustly pushed out of the country for decades, but it is not making home to its people of Somali origins. Removing Abdi Iley may herald in the beginning of the change the center is enjoying currently. AS '], ['']]}, {'Date': 'June 4, 2018', 'Header': 'Commentary: Increasing accounts of displacement, violence against ethnic Amharas and why solving it should be a priority', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], ['Members of ethnic Amharas displaced in Oct. 2017 from Kemashe zone of the Benshangul Gumuz regional state and are sheltered in Bahir Dar'], ['Hewan Alemayehu & Brook Abegaz, For Addis Standard'], ['Addis Abeba, June 04/2018 – Lately, it seems every new day in Ethiopia’s soil brings with it a wave of developing story. In just two months into his office, the new Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed has won the hearts of many Ethiopians by releasing thousands of political prisoners, some of whom highly revered by the public, and by promising multiple reforms. He has conducted discussions with different sections of the society and has largely managed to generate optimism among millions of Ethiopians at home and abroad. However, increasing accounts of ethnic based displacements and violence against ethnic Amharas living in various parts of the country are likely to become one of his biggest challenges and a test to his leadership.'], ['The country has been\xa0witnessing bouts of\xa0ethnic based violence and consequent\xa0forced\xa0displacements since the Ethiopian Peoples\xa0Revolutionary\xa0Democratic Front (EPRDF) took\xa0office\xa0almost three decades ago.\xa0Human\xa0Rights\xa0Council\xa0(formerly\xa0Ethiopian Human\xa0Rights\xa0Commission) has conducted several investigations and published numerous reports on ethnic and tribal conflicts in different parts of the country; and among different ethnic, tribal and national groups. The reports which date back to as early as 1992, a\xa0year after the current government took office,\xa0extensively\xa0reveal the pervasiveness and\xa0seriousness\xa0of the problems. A tabular summary of 41 reports conducted by the council can be found here (Pages 4-6).'], ['The right of Ethiopians to live and work in their own country has never been compromised as in the past couple of years. In the past\xa0year alone, Ethiopia witnessed a\xa0staggering\xa0one million\xa0internally\xa0displaced people following conflicts in the border areas of Oromia and\xa0Ethio-Somali Regional States.\xa0Similarly, the United Nations has reported displacement of at least\xa0200,000\xa0people in the border areas of\xa0Gedeo\xa0(SNNPR) and West\xa0Guji\xa0(Oromia)\xa0in last month.'], ['There\xa0exist\xa0various factors deemed responsible for the resurgence of ethnic-based conflicts in different parts of the\xa0country, especially in SNNPR and Oromia regional states. For a country like Ethiopia, where\xa0polarized political orientations seem to be the norm, the reasons vary depending on who is being asked. Nonetheless, many posit\xa0the current ethnic federal arrangement as a major contributing factor. It is beyond the scope and intention of this article to discuss the pros and cons of Ethiopia’s current federal arrangement and its contribution to ethnic based violence. Hence, let’s move to the specific topic mentioned in the headline.'], ['It is a fair\xa0assessment\xa0to say\xa0that in\xa0the past 27 years, Amharas\xa0have been particularly targeted in violent ethnic attacks in the country.\xa0 Ethnic Amharas living in some areas of Oromia, SNNPR and Benishangul regional states have been killed by groups of residents, sometimes encouraged by the support of local officials, according to some accusations; the properties of Amharas and sometimes Tigreans have been looted and ransacked and residents were made to flee from their homes because they were considered ‘settlers’ in their very own country. Several accusations point at discriminatory and blatantly ethnicist approaches by different levels of government bodies which have characteristically marginalized ethnic Amharas. Such incidents have contributed to the budding Amhara nationalism. A striking piece written by Amanuel Tesfaye a few weeks ago and was published on Addis Standard has presented a list of factors, which the author considered to precipitate the birth of Amhara nationalism.'], ['Recently, hundreds of Amharas have been forcibly displaced and evicted from their homes in Kemashe Zone, Benishangul Gumuz region. More than 530 ethnic Amhara households (each household has from 2-8 members) were displaced from their land and forced to run away from their homes, fearing for their lives. The eviction was carried out with active involvements of local authorities who ordered armed militias and other residents to attack ethnic Amharas, according to a statement by Association of Human Rights for Ethiopia. The recent attack started in October 2017 and continued until the end of April 2018. During the attack 13 ethnic Amhara individuals were killed and at least 50 others were injured.'], ['Similarly, hundreds of ethnic Amharas who have lived in Oromia regional state of Illibabur zones of Buno Bedelle, Choraa Wereda, Jimma Jilaa, Jimaa Togo, Sotolo Jimate, Sotole Gawaa, Agule, Burle number one, and Chabi areas and in Wellega are being forced to flee their homes in recent months, see this report for instance.\xa0 Many Amharas from different parts of Wello were relocated to these areas in 1977 following the infamous Ethiopian famine, which particularly hit the former region of Wello, now under Amhara regional state the hardest. Through the long years, the residents have made families and properties. To the most part, they have peacefully coexisted with Oromos. But since last October, many of them have been targeted in ethnic attacks by some ethnic Oromo groups, and were forced to flee fearing for their lives.'], ['Seid Shibru recounts what he witnessed in one fateful day in October 2017. He says:'], ['“Having been granted approval by the\xa0wereda\xa0authorities,\xa0a crowd of people held a demonstration to demand our expulsion; they were holding knives and swords, and were helped by the local police. The next day, they started coming into the households of\xa0Amharas\xa0and\xa0Tigreaans; they killed four Amharas. The altercation led to loss of lives from both Amhara and Oromo sides. Finally, it was the Amhara regional police that came to our rescue; they also helped us secure back some of our belongings. I\xa0lived there for 34 years, but came to Wello about six months ago, because I have no guarantee of life there, and the officials refused to ensure our safety”.'], ['Logistic and other assistance from Amhara regional state was too little too late; the respondents told us that the regional office only recently supplied a very small amount of food supplies, and to their knowledge, no effort has been made on the part of Amhara and Oromia regional bureaus to solve the problems and bring peace.'], ['Assefa, one of the displaced interviewed for this article sadly points out:'], ['\xa0“We have contributed our share for the relocation of Oromos displaced from Ethio-Somali region; it is sad to know that we are in that same position with no concrete assistance from the Amhara regional state. We never needed any assistance from any government body; we were the ones that supported our government. But the government couldn’t even do its job of keeping us safe, which led us to where we are now. I want to make one thing very clear, we have lived with Oromos for decades; we have shared laughter and sorrow together. We are intermarried and love one another. I have no doubt in my mind that these cunning acts are the deliberate works of the Oromia regional administration. I no longer care what they will do to me.”'], ['All four of displaced individuals interviewed for this article share similar sentiments. They blame the regional authorities for intentionally failing to keep them safe, and even corroborating in the destructive acts. They are convinced a bigger force is behind the killing and looting of their properties.'], ['Mohammed Kubri came to Illubabur Zone, Bedele wereda when he was a very young boy. He\xa0 is one of the many resettled individuals following the famine that hit Wello in 1983. Many Wello Amharas from Desie, Kemise, Lasta, Raya, and Habru live in the area. He is one of the committee members set up by the displaced people to oversee the alarming situation. He regrettably recalls that four of his friends- Seid Mohammed, Seid Demise, Molla Mohammed, and Ahmed Khalifa- were killed by a gang of protestors. Assefa on his part is puzzled by the eerie contradiction seeing the prime minister trying to address other nationwide political concerns but failed to solve or even talk about this very pressing issue.'], ['Currently there are around 1,400 internally displaced Amharas (Wello origin) who are sheltered in different areas in Northern Wello, according to Amhara Mass Media Agency. This is in addition to hundreds of Amharas seeking shelter in Bahir Dar, the capital of the Amhara Regional State. What is even more disconcerting is that, no government body has publicly said anything about the recent violence and displacements from Oromia region. The head of Oromia regional state and other officials have chosen to remain silent, which makes the situation bizarre if not leads one to wonder whether it could actually be a calculated act. Furthermore, there has not been any word from the federal government thus far. The Ethiopian Human Rights Commission recently told the public that investigations will be underway to find out the cause of the violence. However, given the poor record of the commission to conduct independent investigations, it is hard to take the commission’s words at face value.'], ['Another member of the committee, Alemu, told us that there are over a thousand people seeking refuge in different areas of Northern Wello since last October. He also said that in the past two weeks alone, he has learned that houses were being burnt and people have continued to flee fearing for their lives. The committee was on its way to the violence ridden areas in Oromia last week to investigate and find possible solutions, but aborted its mission over the last weekend having been given no guarantee of safety.'], ['Media and human rights’ group attention regarding the recent displacement of ethnic Amharas has also shockingly been very little. It is understandable that precluding factors in the region may have made impartial investigations very difficult; in addition, nationalist driven rhetoric is making access to factual information and balanced discussions daunting. Nonetheless, it is quite puzzling and bizarre for human rights institutions such as Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International, that have remained active in Ethiopia’s politics and have published dozens of reports about anti-government protests in the country, to be completely silent about the mass displacement and killings of ethnic Amharas from different parts of the country.'], ['Since Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed took office two months ago, he has made impressive achievements, including releasing thousands of prisoners in the country and negotiating the release of thousands of prisoners from abroad. He has held talks and listened to the grievances and hopes of thousands of Ethiopians from multiple corners of the country. He has touched the hearts of millions of Ethiopians by his eloquent and unifying speeches; and on Saturday June 02, the Council of Ministers\xa0 approved a draft law to lift the current State of Emergency,\xa0pending parliamentary approval. However, all these remarkable achievements cannot and should not cloud the troubling reality of tens of thousands of people who are denied a very basic human right: a right to safety! They need justice and compensations immediately; authorities must also hold those responsible into account. It is our sincere hope that the government listens to Assefa Yimam’s pleas: “We are praying that there will come a time where we can all be united as\xa0Ethiopians; I hope you all tirelessly work for it.” AS'], ['']]}]
[{'Date': 'May 10, 2018', 'Header': 'Analysis: Addis Abeba: An Enigmatic City', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], ['Ayele Gelan, (PhD), special to Addis Standard '], ['Addis Abeba, May 10/2018 – At its birth, Ethiopia’s capital city was given a romantic and beautiful name – Addis Abeba meaning New Flower. As time went by, however, Addis Abeba grew into an enigmatic city. To a foreigner, the city is a mysterious and exotic place, a vibrant cosmopolitan city that offers a unique blend of culture and cuisine, a good value for money with tourist spending.\xa0 Ethiopians would find Addis Abeba a joyful place too but they have increasingly begun to recognize the charm they see in it is that of a prodigal daughter type. To begin with, Addis Abeba is rapidly becoming a place in which the majority of Ethiopians cannot afford to live.'], ['Since the tragic and disastrous events surrounding the botched Addis master plan, infamously referred to by protesters as “master killer”, Addis Abeba has become more of a beast than a beauty in the minds of millions of Ethiopians.\xa0 It may have sounded as if the city’s beautiful name was coined to mask its ugly functions in the country’s social and economic history in its later years.'], ['But what has gone wrong with Addis Abeba’s functions in Ethiopia’s economy? In this piece I will attempt to answer these and related questions.\xa0 I will confine my analysis mainly to the role of the city in Ethiopia’s economic development; specifically using urban economics as an analytical frame. I will then briefly touch on issues related to social and community cohesion as well as sustainable city development.'], ['The setting'], ['In order to explain Addis Abeba’s functions in Ethiopia’s economy, it is appropriate to briefly discuss the setting, the extent of Ethiopia’s urbanization. The rate of urbanization is often measured by expressing total urban population as a ratio of total population of that country. \xa0By this criterion, Ethiopia is one of the least urbanized countries in the world.'], ['According to the Word Bank’s flagship publication, the World Development Indicator, about 20% of Ethiopia’s population lived in urban areas in 2016, ranking 248th out of 260 countries surveyed, according to that report. From Africa, only five countries fell below Ethiopia: South Sudan and Niger (19% each), Uganda and Malawi (16% each), and Burundi with 12%.'], ['The health of overall urbanization or modernization of a developing economy is measured by the extent of structural transformation – a change in the structure and composition of the economy from predominantly rural and agricultural to urban and industrial.\xa0 Only 9% of Ethiopia’s work force was employed in the industrial sector in 2016.\xa0 Even this might be an overestimation in that Ethiopia’s industrial employment have been hugely inflated by the construction boom, due largely to the mushrooming mega public projects in recent decades.'], ['In that case, it is appropriate to focus on manufacturing, which indicates the extent of substantive or real structural transformation. Between 2010 and 2016, the share of manufacturing in Ethiopia’s GDP was 4.2% on average.\xa0 The corresponding average contribution during the six years preceding 1990 was 5%, that is to say a decline by 0.8% in the relative position of manufacturing in Ethiopia’s economy over the last three decades.\xa0 This means the hype about Ethiopia’s economic growth miracles and transformations seems to have come to naught.'], ['The rate of urbanization discussed above simply indicates the extent to which the structure of the economy and society is being transformed from traditional to modern, both in terms of residential places of the population (rural to urban) and structure of the economy (agricultural to industrial).\xa0 With change in structure in the sectoral composition of the economy, the relative sizes of the two spatial dimensions (urban and rural) are expected to change over time – the former expanding the latter contracting.'], ['Critically, the two components – the modern/urban/industrial and traditional/rural/agricultural – economies do not simply coexist but also they do interact in different markets, exchanging goods and services, also in labor markets through rural-urban migration. The latter becomes possible through improvements in agricultural productivity, which makes it possible to release labor for the modern industrial sector.'], ['Lopsided'], ['The role of Addis Abeba should be discussed in the context of the shallow structural transformation of the country – even the extremely low rate of urbanization is not accompanied with industrialization or manufacturing development to any real extent.'], ['Now it is appropriate to focus the discussion on Addis Abeba itself; specifically, the city’s relative size and its functions.\xa0 The functions of urban areas in energizing the national economy, specifically enhancing productivity in the rural and peripheral locations, would critically depend on the size and structure of the urban systems.'], [''], ['In a modernizing and urbanizing economy, urban systems are expected to follow a pyramid like cascading structure with the largest city in the center and the size and distribution of the rest of cities in the urban hierarchical system following a certain pattern. This is governed by what urban economists and geographers call Zipf’s law.\xa0 According to this law, the population of the city on top, the mega city, is expected to be: about two times the population of the second largest city, and three times that of the third largest city, four times that of the fourth largest city, and so on.\xa0 City rank size distributions in most countries may not exactly fit to this analytical frame but they do closely follow this pattern of distribution.'], ['However, the rank and size structure of Ethiopia’s cities seem to defy Zipf’s Law. Ethiopia is a rare and special case.\xa0 Addis Abeba dwarfs the rest of cities in Ethiopia to a baffling extent. The table here shows the extent of abnormality of Addis Abeba.\xa0 In order to facilitate comparability, population data for all countries and cities presented in the table are obtained from the same source.'], ['Ten African countries and five from the rest of the world are selected and then ranked according to the ratio of the largest to the second largest cities in each country.\nEthiopia comes on top, with the ratio of the population of Addis Abeba to Adama, Ethiopia’s second largest city, standing at a whopping 10.1 ratio. As noted earlier, this ratio is expected to be close to 2. Kigali and Dar Es Salam are the other two African countries that show a degree of abnormality but theirs come nowhere near that of Addis Abeba.'], ['The Zipf ratios of most mega cities of the rest of African fall in the normal range.\xa0 Similarly, ratios computed for other countries in the rest of the world even more so, except for London, whose population is about eight times that of Birmingham, UK’s second largest city.\xa0 Even London’s ratio falls way below that of Addis Ababa.'], ['Addis Abeba is an extreme example of lopsided structure in urban systems.\xa0 Urban functions in economic development of a country are greatly influenced by the extent to which the urban system follows a balanced growth.\xa0 Urban hierarchy are channels through which innovations and new ideas are diffused through the national economy in a top-down fashion, from mega cities, secondary cities, medium sized cities and all the way down to agropolitan centers or small towns in rural areas.'], ['Forces of agglomeration work the other way, resources moving up the hierarchy to larger and larger centers. Balanced urban development means a symbiotic relationship between the center and the periphery, with equilibrating forces of agglomerations and dispersion.'], ['Addis Abeba seems to have grown at the expense of lower level cities, the power of agglomeration dominating the forces of spread. Addis literally sucks resources from the periphery to itself, with little or nothing flowing in the opposite direction down the urban hierarchy. The relationship between Addis and its periphery have become parasitic rather than symbiotic.'], ['Power to the powerful'], ['It is beyond the scope of this piece to discuss the extent to which Addis Abeba has been sucking disproportionately enormous share of the country’s resources to itself.\xa0 It may suffice to briefly discuss Addis Abeba’s share in total electricity generated and distributed in Ethiopia.\xa0 The Ethiopian Electric Power Office, (EEPO), has about fifteen regions of its own, four of them being different sub-districts of Addis Abeba. A report entitled Powering Africa 2014 provides allocation of power to the fifteen EEPO, previously known as EEPCO, regions in 2012.\xa0 The electricity allocation data obtained from this source and population data obtained from the World Bank were jointly used to create the figure presented here.'], [''], ['Addis Abeba has about 4% share in total population of Ethiopia, yet it amasses a 59% share in total electricity produced and distributed in Ethiopia.\xa0 In other words, while 4% of Ethiopia’s population consumes 59% of total electricity, 96% of Ethiopia’s population gets the remaining 41%.'], ['Perhaps it is appropriate to compare Addis Abeba’s share in total urban population, on the ground that most rural areas are not connected to the electricity grid.\xa0 Addis Abeba, with 19% share in total urban population, gets 59% share in power allocation, while the rest of urban centers, whose share in total urban population is 81%, survive on 41% of the total electricity produced and distributed by EEPO (then EEPCO) in 2012.'], ['The population based comparison is deliberate regardless of whether power allocated to Addis Abeba was not entirely used at household’s residential homes. The disproportionately large share of Addis Abeba has to be judged not just based on final consumption by households but also existence of comparably larger and larger shares of investment opportunities and hence businesses, which have increasingly favored to locate themselves in Addis Abeba.'], ['Fuel to the flame'], ['The purpose of urban public policy is to mitigate against forces of agglomeration.\xa0 This is done by tilting the balance in favor of forces of dispersion in such a way that urban systems would be nudged toward a balanced growth path.\xa0 Forces of agglomerations work through invisible market force, known to regional scientists as circular cumulative causation.\xa0 Businesses tend to locate where people live.\xa0 People choose to live where businesses are located.\xa0 People follow jobs, jobs follow people.\xa0 These circular causations reinforce each other and then lead to something like Addis Abeba. Left to market devices, the forces of agglomeration would always win, progressively weakening the forces of diffusion down the urban hierarchy.\xa0 That is why sound urban policy would play a critical role in creating a healthy and balanced urban system.'], ['Ethiopia’s city planners seem to have an uncontrollable urge to add fuel to the flame, encouraging and reinforcing the forces of agglomeration already at play.\xa0 It sounds as if urban development planners in Ethiopia have been actively cooperating with the market forces in earnest, literally saying to forces of agglomeration – anything you do we can do better!'], ['In that regard, the debacle with the failed Addis Abeba Master Plan in particular cannot be expressed merely as a misguided urban policy. It is way more than that.\xa0 The scale of chaos that accompanied that Master Plan can be illustrated by the geographic expansion contemplated in that master plan – a 21 fold increment of the size of Addis Abeba;\xa0 the so-called planners simply hallucinated to increase the current 52 thousand hectares to 1.1 million hectares!'], ['Even without expanding it 21 times its current size, Addis Abeba has already become such an amorphously shaped mega city in its size as compared to the country’s urban hierarchy.\xa0 To begin with, even if Addis Abeba has had a normal relative size in the urban system, a city planners’ vision to expand the size to such proportion is certainly unheard of in urban planning history of any country in the world.'], ['In most metropolitan region of the world, a small fractional encroachment into prime farm lands would be scandalous and raises uproars among citizens who would be rightly concerned with adverse consequences of sub-urbanization on the livelihoods of farming communities and the natural environment.'], ['Self-degradation'], ['The analysis so far has focused on the economic relationship between Addis Abeba, the center, and the rest of Ethiopia, the periphery.\xa0 Now it is appropriate to briefly discuss social and community cohesion within the boundary of Addis Abeba as well as its relationship with communities living in its neighboring districts, the so-called “Special Zone of the Oromia Regional State”.'], ['A city is analogous to a living organism: consumes materials, metalizes, grows old, regenerates or renews itself. Cities are made up of units of places, neighborhoods, and units of communities, households. Any harm a city development plan inflicts on its people and the physical environment can be legitimately referred to as self-destruction.'], ['In that regard, Ethiopia’s capital city seems to have portrayed persistently a self-cannibalistic behavior over the years.\xa0 Its regeneration and renewal is often accompanied with self-destruction – annihilating communities and destroying their livelihoods. \xa0 One does not need to go far back in Addis Abeba’s history to substantiate this claim. I can adduce two extraordinary and tragic episodes, extreme cruelties currently being perpetrated against the very people Addis Abeba’s growth is meant to serve.'], ['The scene of the first episode is the center of old Addis Abeba, where callous destruction of the city’s established communities have taken place at a massive scale.\xa0 Communities were evicted to give way to regeneration. In the minds of Addis City planners, regeneration means construction of high rise commercial and residential building, with no regard whatsoever for the human dimension.'], ['Regeneration and renewal are essential and inescapable facts in the history of any city in the world.\xa0 However, community participation ensures humane ways of undertaking such disruption, for instance, by sufficiently compensating households evicted from family homes they have occupied for generations.'], ['However, Addis’ recklessly adventurous regeneration plan obliterated the economic livelihoods as well as the social fabrics of hundreds of thousands of extremely poor households. Those whose homes were demolished might have been given “social housing” at the fringes of Addis Abeba, but it was abundantly clear that their new homes would never suit their lifestyles.'], ['Still worse, the rent of those “social houses” were set so high that they were way beyond what the ordinary poor households could afford. In the circumstances, most poor households were forced to let out their new houses to those who could afford; rent income being channeled to pay mortgages. It is anybody’s guess as to what happened to those unfortunate victims of Addis Abeba’s regeneration.'], [''], ['The physical demolition of buildings and livelihoods in the center was accompanied by yet another destruction of lives and livelihoods of farming communities just across the boundary of Addis Abeba and within the Oromia special zone. We often mistakenly conclude that the master plan was stopped in good time.\xa0 The fact is, by the time the master plan was stopped, hundreds of thousands of farming households were already\xa0 evicted from their ancestral lands without proper compensations. Acreages of prime agricultural lands were amassed by property developers, partly to develop luxury homes for the rich and partly for social housing to resettle those evicted in the first episode. The cruel treatment of Oromo farmers simply defies belief.\xa0'], ['No wonder then that the thoughtless actions of Addis Abeba’s city planners have eventually triggered the widespread popular protest that has shaken the country to its foundation during the last four years.\xa0 It should be underlined that what is lost to communities at both ends, the center and suburb of Addis Abeba, was gained by corrupt land grabbing officials and property developers. In a way, Addis Abeba’s growth model seems to have been obeying a zero-sum-game rule.'], [''], ['The two tragic episodes that have concurrently unfolded at the center and fringe of Addis Abeba were just tips of the iceberg. So far I have only touched on economic and social ills traceable to Addis Abeba’s malfunctions as a capital city.\xa0 As any Ethiopian with a hint of environmental concern would tell, ‘Green space’ has not yet entered the vocabulary of Addis’ city planners – city planning seems to be understood as covering every inch of the city space with concrete slabs.'], ['In a nutshell Addis Abeba would need to very seriously rethink and reformulate its approach to sustainable city development, firmly embracing the three pillars of sustainability – social, economic and environmental. These would need to be set in the context of broader urban public policy of the country. AS'], ['ED’s Note: Ayele Gelan is an economist by training. He can be reached at augelana@gmail.com.\xa0He tweets @AyeleGelan']]}, {'Date': 'November 22, 2017', 'Header': 'Commentary -Transformation from within: hope or mirage? The OPDO-ANDM alliance and the prospect of reform', 'news_paragraphs': [['\xa0'], ['Tsegaye R Ararssa*'], ['1 – Introduction'], ['Addis Abeba, November 22/2017 – No time has been more eventful in Ethiopia than the one we are living in. Years of peaceful protests in Oromia, later also augmented by flashes of resistance in Konso and the Amhara region, seem to have shaken the regime to its core and have brought the country to a crossroads once more. Many have started to wonder if this is going to be an opportunity for the regime to, finally, transit to democracy and for the state to, at last, transform itself into a fairer, a more just, a more equitable, and a more peaceful—if only redeemed—polity. The recent gesture of the Oromo People’s Democratic Organization (OPDO) to reach out to the Amhara National Democratic Movement (ANDM) in the spirit of solidarity and collaboration has occasioned a renewed hope in the possibility of this much sought after transformation. What does this gesture of solidarity promise? Will the democratic transformation promised in these gestures and the democratic aspirations expressed throughout the season of the protests be delivered, or will they remain a mirage? Prospectively, beyond these gestures of alliance and the populist rhetorical flourishes in favor of democratic change in the two regional states, what can be done to see to it that the promise is delivered, or the hope is turned into reality? The following is a reflection pointing in that direction.'], ['2 – The OPDO-ANDM Alliance: What does it mean'], ['The OPDO-ANDM gesture of alliance is viewed by many as heartening.\xa0 To be sure, more than anything else, it is a political alliance quickly put together to edge out TPLF in the raging power struggle within the EPRDF coalition. Yet, it has emboldened the possibility of harvesting some democratic dividends if – beyond the parties – the elites of the two populous regional states start to work together in the spirit of ensconcing democracy and transforming the state-society relations in the country. From the side of the OPDO, beyond and above sending the message to the hitherto dominant Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) that the OPDO is not alone in resisting the former’s patronage, it is also an attempt to calm down the Amhara elite’s eternal suspicion and fear (albeit largely irrational and groundless) of the (perceived) ‘Oromo threat to the unity and territorial integrity of Ethiopia.’ Regardless of the tacit endorsement of the (warped) attitude that presents the Amhara elite as the sole guardian of the ‘unity’ and integrity of the country, it is a gesture that also indicates the resolve of this generation of Oromos to take the bigger responsibility for the larger country in trying to bring others to (a better, fairer, and more inclusive version of) the Ethiopian fold.'], ['Amhara regional state President Gedu Andargachew and Oromia regional state president Lemma Megerssa (Both seated center)\xa0'], ['The alliance can also be taken as an attempt on the part of the OPDO to do their side of the responsibility and beckon others to do their part if they so choose. The other – regarding political ethics implied in this gesture has also a far-reaching consequence for the future of the country. As such, OPDO’s carefully ‘calculated’ choice to focus on and consider others’ fears rather than dwelling on the injustice inflicted upon their people, now and in the past, is a signal that they want to be larger than their resentment of their ‘present-absence’ in Ethiopia thus far. Their act of claiming the country’s problems (and natural endowments) as their own (saying “Xaanaan keenya” – Tana is ours) – or even the more reckless rhetorical excess in saying that they are “addicted to ‘Ethiopianism’” – is suggestive of the place of the Oromo in the Ethiopia to come. In a sense, this could as well be a way of ‘presenting’ (or bringing back to the present) those who have so far been rendered absent. It is a way of making themselves legible in the political vernacular of the country to which they have been illegible so far.'], ['For ANDM, to accept OPDO’s initiative, just as much as it is a political tactic of edging out TPLF in its own bit of the power struggle within the EPRDF, signals the choice on the part of the Amhara elite to move on, and to do so by accepting the present reality on the ground. It is also a recognition that the demands of their people at the grassroots level are legitimate and need to be met as such only democratically. They seem to have finally realized that in order to hear and concede to the democratic demands of the people, they first need to realize democracy within their party (EPRDF) in which TPLF has so far been the sole maker and breaker of the political game. They seem to understand that common sense—and elementary understanding of democracy as decision-making by majority vote – suggests that the parties with larger members and larger potential constituencies deserve more say and hearing than they have been getting so far. And they do not see a political overreach in raising this simple question of fair hearing and treatment both in Oromia and in their own region. Of course, the implication is far-reaching for their people, their region, and the larger country. The demand simply unleashes “the logic of equality”[1] in the political party[2] thereby signalling the beginning of transformation from within.'], ['Consequently, both OPDO and ANDM seem to have finally realized that in order to effectively respond to the democratic impulse hitting at their doors daily from outside (from their peoples), they need to answer the inner democratic urge from within, bypassing the hierarchic tradition of EPRDF politics that made them subservient so far.[3] If seen in this light, the alliance is already a signal for more democratic mandate for these hitherto ‘junior partners’ of the TPLF to act more autonomously with a larger space to maneuve. At another level, the alliance may be seen as ‘an immanent critique’ of the state on behalf of democratic transformation. But it is more. It may be a sign that effective democratic transition and state transformation may finally be coming from a corner least expected to be a site of democratic performance, i.e. from within (i.e. from within the constituents of the EPRDF machine), rather than from without (i.e., the opposition political organizations cum the pressures of the international community).'], ['The question now is what can be done to make this hope of transformation real? What of this ‘inner reform’ can be done right in order to bring about the much sought transformation? If this gesture of inter-party alliance is going to yield anything more substantive, what should we expect them to do in the near future?'], ['3 -What is to be done? And Quo Vadis, EPRDF?'], ['What should be done? And where should they start it? Top in the to-do list is the introduction of democracy to EPRDF as a party. Or, more precisely, the OPDO-ANDM alliance must start to push back to the undemocratic instincts of TPLF, which must be tamed and placed in proper legal check. That should be followed by taking position of prominence to seek more mandate in Parliament. What remains after that, as we will see in the sections to follow, is a mere concatenation of this basic premise of democratization.'], ['\xa0\xa0\xa0 3.1 Democratize EPRDF, or Free it from the TPLF Suzerainty'], ['The first task is to push this democratizing impulse in the two organizations to the level where it can effectively democratize the broader EPRDF internally. That means to enhancing and reinforcing internal democracy within the coalition. Which means the parties with larger membership and larger constituency base ought to be given the voices and the votes they deserve in proportion to the population they purport to represent. This in turn leads to the democratization of the key political institutions such as the Federal Parliament (the House of Peoples’ Representatives, alias HPR)[4]. The parties that have the larger number of seats in the Parliament will come to seize positions of prominence. This makes the OPDO-ANDM alliance a veritable force in the formation of a new government chiefly from the ranks of the OPDO and ANDM but also the SPDM and TPLF (in proportion to the number of their seats and in the spirit of inclusiveness). In this process, they may choose to assign the premiership to one of their members or keep it in the hand of the SPDM in the interest of continuity and of not alienating the SNNPS all too quickly [5] (All this needs to be done through an intense process of negotiation keeping an eye on the ultimate democratization of the entire country.)'], ['\xa0\xa0\xa0 3.2 Free the Parliament and the Government from TPLF domination, but keep the Government accountable to the Parliament)'], ['Once the OPDO-ANDM alliance achieves position of prominence in the Parliament, what follows is freeing the Parliament itself from TPLF’s repressive – and arguably unconstitutional – rules of procedure that muzzled Members of Parliament (MPs) in the name of ensuring party discipline and practicing ‘democratic centralism’ (which\xa0 in practice has more of centralism than democracy). They must understand that MPs know their priorities in the hierarchy of their loyalties: to their conscience, their constituency, their country, and their party in that order. The MPs in turn must ensure the accountability of the Government to the Parliament in line with the constitutional provision that the HPR is “the highest authority”[6] in the country thereby effectively subordinating the Executive to the Legislature without prejudice to the principle of ‘separation of powers’ afforded in the Parliamentary system that ours is.'], ['\xa0\xa0\xa0 3.3 Free the People from Fear: Restore order and the ‘rule of law’'], ['Next, the newly configured Parliament should resolve to lift the TPLF-imposed rule by Command Post by bringing an end to the undeclared state of emergency. It must also resolve to restore inter-State peace, especially around the borders. It should resolve to reinstate and/or resettle the over 600, 000 persons evicted from the Somali-Oromia borders and (from the Somali region).[7] In this, they should demonstrate a compassionate governance the time demands.'], ['3.4\xa0 Demilitarize the politics, depoliticize the army'], ['In a first gesture of demilitarizing the politics – and depoliticizing the army in the long term – in Ethiopia, they should call the army back to its barracks. They should make sure that the forces that have perpetrated violence and atrocities on the people in the course of the most recent protests are made accountable politically, administratively, and legally. The leadership and members of the ‘Liyu Police’ that committed massacres should be brought to justice. This includes the President of the Somali National Regional Government, Abdi Iley, and the leaders of the Federal Army that worked in tandem with the ‘Liyu Police’ to commit the aggression on Oromia. The institution of the ‘Liyu police’ should be disarmed and disbanded.'], ['\xa0\xa0\xa0 3.5 Animate constitutionalism'], ['They must animate the constitutional institutions of dispute settlement in order for them to respond effectively to disputes over borders (Oromia-Somali; Benishangul-Oromia, Afar-Amhara, etc), local self-rule (e.g., Konso), identity (e.g., Walqayit, Qemant, Matakkal, Oromos in Harari Region, etc), and other forms of internal self-determination (e.g., the long-standing Sidama demand for Statehood in the Federation, of the Gamo to its own Zone/Special District, of the Omo Valley District, etc). This requires the active engagement of the House of Federation (and its Council of Constitutional Inquiry), the Conflict Departments of the Ministry of Federal and Pastoralist Affairs, and even the regular courts (over justiceable matters and cases that need the activation of legal-judicial accountability). It is also important to start rethinking the institutional and procedural arrangement for constitutional interpretation. In this regard, it is important to consider the formation of a constitutional court that serves a more effective adjudicator over cases and a more neutral umpire of the Federation.'], ['\xa0\xa0\xa0 3.6 Free political prisoners, repeal repressive laws, counteract corruption'], ['Extending the work of restoring the rule of law, the OPDO-ANDM alliance in Parliament must resolve to free all political prisoners. They should also resolve to repeal all repressive laws or the repressive provisions thereof (on the basis of legitimacy of purpose, necessity, rationality, proportionality, etc). In particular, they should revisit the overtly counter-democratic laws (counter-terrorism laws, the rules on media freedom, the laws on political parties and civil society associations—all of which have long stifled freedom of speech, expression, press, assembly, and association). They should also repeal the list of political parties proscribed as ‘terrorist organizations’ purely on political grounds in order to silence dissenting voices.[8] In the interest of further strengthening the ‘rule of law’ (forgive the Rule of Law fetishism here!) and ensuring a degree of economic justice, they should activate the antic-corruption commission in order to prosecute corrupt officials, business people, and their associates who have been complicit in a variety of illicit ‘investment and trade’ activities. The Commission must be put to a rehabilitated use of pursuing justice rather than attacking political dissidents as such.'], ['\xa0\xa0\xa0 3.7 Perform compassionate governance'], ['The first act of compassion as a government is for it to extend humanitarian assistance to people displaced from hot spots of recent conflicts (over 600,000 in Oromia alone). People must get shelter and basic necessities. They should be brought out of the military training camps they have been put into. They should be provided with basic means of survival. But they should also be given their life back—be it where they have been evicted from or in a place of their choice where basic social services are effectively provided. The Federal Government has so far been conspicuously absent from the scene in regards to reaching out to the displaced—save for the interesting exception of the visit made by the Deputy Prime Minister (also from ANDM, not entirely coincidentally) to the temporary rehabilitation camp in Hamarressaa.'], ['The wider society, especially in Oromia and Amhara regions, has been affected by dislocation that resulted from the protests. Thousands have been subjected to mass arrest, detention in concentration camps, tortures, fake charges, and overtly political trials. This has greatly put families in economic distress as it is mostly the breadwinners that are sent to jail or are forced into exile. Mechanisms have to be devised immediately in order to counteract the distress, to ameliorate the increasing precariousness of life, and to heal the fracture.'], ['Moreover, in terms of performing compassionate governance and bringing about more human security – and also in terms of responding to the demands of the protests – all land grab schemes must be brought to a halt.\xa0 The draft proclamation on the so called National Master Plan must be abandoned until the current state of uncertainty and insecurity subsides. All persons evicted from their land must be restored to their plots and/or given a replacement house and/or farm as appropriate.'], ['\xa0\xa0\xa0 3.8 Address all the political demands of the protestors'], ['In Oromia, addressing the demands of the #Oromoprotests is a matter of high priority. The demands are clearly articulated in the course of the last three years. No amount of cosmetic change, including in styles (such as new styles of doing public relations and communication via social media or one’s own conventional media), or a change in rhetoric, can satisfy an awakened public.[9] The questions of abbaa biyyumma (the entitlement to rights and benefits in one’s own country as citizens), of equitable resource distribution (and protection from an unfair tax), access to economic facilities (e.g. to land, mineral resources, water, health, and road infrastructure) and social opportunities (e.g. education), linguistic justice (having Afaan Oromo as one of the working languages of the Federal Government), release of political prisoners, repeal of unjust administrative and economic laws and policies (such as the Oromia urban development law, the so called Addis Abeba Master Plan, etc), more self-rule at the regional level [or non-interference of the TPLF overlords from the ‘center’], remain unanswered. The regional government should also work more expeditiously to ensure the Oromo interest in Finfinnee (the so-called constitutional ‘special interest of Oromia over Finfinnee/Addis Abeba’).[10] The fact that the economy has come to a standstill already must be taken into consideration. Consequently, next to pacifying the country by ‘getting the politics right’, the government must inject a degree of dynamism to the economy by stabilizing the currency. Without it, the precariousness of life gets only worse and the suffering of the poor will continue to rise. Price hikes must be brought to a halt. Jobs need to be created. Livelihoods must improve. Conditions necessary for enhanced productivity (i.e., stability) must be established.'], ['\xa04. Towards a democratic transition and a deeper transformation'], ['Simultaneously, the government must start a comprehensive dialogue, engagement, and negotiation in good faith with all political parties and stakeholders to ensure that there will be a genuinely democratic election in 2020. In the course of this dialogue, they should not be afraid of demands for constitutional amendments, or revisions, needed for an effective transition of the politics to democracy and transformation of the polity and its state for good. The above-listed activities will hopefully contribute to the democratization of the politics. The imperative of state transformation requires more work. Among other things – and perhaps above all – it demands that we empower the already mobilized people to assert their newly gained agency as they seek to forge a future of their own choice. Given we are working within this reformist framework for change, this demands nothing less than what, elsewhere, I referred to as “a redemptive constitutional practice.”[11]'], ['\xa05. Conclusion'], ['Where does this leave EPRDF? Obviously, these otherwise simple recommendations are hard for the TPLF-led EPRDF regime to accept and implement. Considering the privilege the TPLF enjoyed so far, the vested interest their political, military, and business class currently have, and the powers their elite will have to relinquish in the democratic dispensation to come, this is only to be expected. This means that the OPDO-ANDM alliance must be creative in identifying ‘incentives’ that can ease the TPLF in to their prospective reform package. Some of the measures (such as freeing political prisoners and repeal of the list of ‘terrorist organizations’, for example) may be viewed as a threat even to the reformist elements in the OPDO-ANDM alliance. But this is the only best choice they have. This is the best deal they can get. By way of incentives for their reformist measures, the OPDO and ANDM – apart from winning concessions for the suffering public in their currently itchy constituencies – can take comfort in the legacy of being remembered as the political parties that will have made the birth of democracy possible in Ethiopia.'], ['In this way, they can re-invent themselves (as the OPDO seems to be doing lately, at least in rhetoric) and become agents of democratization, or they may choose to perish as a party of the last authoritarian regime in the country, especially in the event that they fail to take these modest reformist decisions and actions. Their refusal to reform – as they are often bent on doing – will further deepen the current crisis and confront them, and the country, with a much bleaker future. We just hope that they choose to push for reforms in order to make themselves relevant to the future! Otherwise, the hope of transformation may as well become a mirage. And the flicker of hope seen in this new OPDO-ANDM alliance and their populist rhetoric in their own respective regions may be an illusion, and their words just words. AS'], ['ED’s Note: The first draft of this article was already published on the writer’s Facebook page. It is republished here with more details than the first draft, corroborating links to previous stories and end notes. \n'], ['*Tsegaye R Ararssa can be reached at tsegayenz@gmail.com.'], ['End notes '], ['[1]\xa0 The words are from Robert T. Dahl, On Democracy. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 2001. (East-West Press edition), p.10.'], ['[2] The most immediate change this calls forth is the change in the voting structure of the Executive Committee of EPRDF in which all four members of the ‘coalition’ have equal votes irrespective of the difference of the constituencies they (claim to) represent.'], ['[3] The hierarchy in the party’s practice is often ‘explained and justified’ by each member organization’s “years of participation in the struggle to depose the Derg,”according to which TPLF sits at the helm followed by ANDM, OPDO, and SPDM in that order.'], ['[4] According to art 56 of the Constitution, “[a] political party, or a coalition of political parties that has the greatest number… shall form the Executive and lead it.”'], ['[5] The current Prime Minister, Hailemariam Desalegn, comes from the SPDM.'], ['[6] Art 50 (3).'], ['[7] There are reports that several other people are also evicted from their homes and land in Oromia as a consequence of the contrived ‘ethnic conflicts’ agitated—and orchestrated in a couple of places–by the TPLF agents. Needless to say, these evicts also need to be protected, given relief, returned to their homes and/or given back their lives.'], ['[8] Oromo Liberation Front (OLF), Ogaden National Liberation Front (ONLF), and Ginbot 7 are the most outstanding examples of such parties.'], ['[9] The efforts of the Government Spokespersons of Oromia and Amhara National Regional States, Ato Adissu Arega and Ato Nigusu Tilahun, respectively, in engaging the public through the mass media, including on facebook, while commendable in terms of enhancing freedom of information and winning public trust, is not enough to meet the substantive demands expressed in the course of the protests.'], ['[10] This demand is based on the constitutional provision of art 49(5). A draft proclamation prepared by the HPR was scheduled “to be discussed with the public.” The discussion—which in principle should engage the Oromo public as well as the Finfinnee residents—is yet to be conducted.'], ['[11] Tsegaye Regassa, “The Making and Legitimacy of the Ethiopian Constitution,” 23 (1) Afrika Focus (2010), 85-118, esp, 111-113. Also, Tsegaye R. Ararssa, “Fractured Constitutional Beginnings and the Hope of Redemption,” (forthcoming 2017).']]}, {'Date': 'November 15, 2017', 'Header': 'Opinion: Land governance is key to Africa’s transformation', 'news_paragraphs': [['Dr Abdalla Hamdok, ECA \n\xa0\nAddis Abeba, November 15/2017 – The Africa\xa0Land Policy Center (formerly the Land Policy Initiative) in collaboration with partner organizations will hold an International Conference on November\xa014-17,\xa02017 in Addis Abeba.\xa0In line with the AU Declaration on Land Issues and Challenges in Africa, this\xa0multi-stakeholder dialogue platform\xa0will contribute to knowledge generation and sharing,\xa0as well as advocacy on land policy development, implementation and monitoring.\xa0\n\xa0\nThemed\xa0“The Africa We Want: Achieving socioeconomic transformation through inclusive and equitable access to land by the youth”,\xa0the Land Conference\xa0will have\xa0particular focus on youth and how they can be mobilized to benefit from land and its resources. It is anticipated that the Conference will bring into discussion new land policy issues and how they can be addressed in an inclusive manner.\xa0\n\xa0\nIt is indisputable that inclusive land governance practices provide an opportunity for Africa to benefit from the continent’s demographic dividend. They will help increase the number of working age\xa0adults relative to\xa0youthful\xa0dependents through enhanced agricultural production and agribusiness.\xa0Further, holistic\xa0land policy practices\xa0can contribute to\xa0maximal utilization of land based resources. Where large numbers of\xa0working age adults are engaged in productive activities, livelihoods are secured and families are able to invest in a sustained manner. This will lead to improvements in education, skills development, public health, economic growth,\xa0job creation and accountability in governance.\xa0'], ['\xa0'], ['\nMeraro is a beautiful small village in central Ethiopia some 240 km South East of Addis Abeba. The area its known for its honey & wheat production, among others.\n'], ['\nDemographic dividend is not incidental. Rather, it is a consequence of inclusive and equitable policies and strategies pursued by nations.\xa0There is no doubt that youth involvement in decision making and empowering them through access to land and other natural resources\xa0will\xa0unlock Africa’s economic potential and provide a pathway towards Agenda 2063.\xa0It is important therefore that policy makers and researchers\xa0discuss strategies for achieving socioeconomic\xa0transformation through inclusive and equitable access to land by the youth,\xa0who constitute over 65% of the continent’s population.\xa0It is commendable that\xa0AU\xa0declared\xa02017 as the year of youth. Thisshows the commitment of Member\xa0States to\xa0invest in young people.\xa0\n\xa0\nGenerally speaking, an examination of youth demographic in Africa portrays a generation that is dissatisfied and restless.\xa0Theyfeel deprived of employment opportunities and peripheral to high level decision making structures.\xa0The high rates of migration to the North and radicalization would to some extent attest to this.\xa0While at independence\xa0youth were the principal agents of socioeconomic transformation in many nations, this role has shifted over the decades and an aura of despair and disillusionment has taken over. \xa0\n\xa0\nBut youth in Africa can be given hope again\xa0to\xa0become agents of social and economic change.\xa0This can be done\xa0through a\xa0review of land policies\xa0to\xa0increase access to land as well as harnessing\xa0technology and innovation\xa0for\xa0securing\xa0land rights and increasing\xa0productivity. These measures, coupled with transparent and sustainable land based investments, economic justice, climate change mitigation and environmental conservation\xa0are critical for the transformation of the continent.\xa0\n\xa0\nThere are other reasons why we must invest in innovative land policies.\xa0Land is a strategic resource in industrialization. But for maximal utilization, clarity of policy on its management and use is needed. In the discharge of its mandate,the African Land Policy Center has provided principles and guidelines for Large Scale Land Based Investments (LSLBI) in Africa. Using these guidelines,\xa0African states have an opportunity to leverage the abundant natural resources on the continent to propel economic growth and industrialization. With determination and focus,\xa0the continent\xa0can take strategic control over its resources\xa0and\xa0seize the opportunities provided by advances in technology\xa0to\xa0maximize its value from this capital.\xa0We know that land has been used as the foundation of economic development elsewhere in the world\xa0and promoted food production.\xa0We can learn from these experiences to increase production, investment and opportunities in Africa.\xa0\n\xa0\nOf equal importance to socioeconomic transformation is provision of relevant and holistic land\xa0governance curricula responsive to Africa’s unique history, ecology and\xa0socioeconomic\xa0needs.\xa0Emerging research shows gaps\xa0in the training of land professionals.\xa0There is an opportunity for professionals\xa0to be well equipped\xa0to serve the needs of different sectors\xa0of society\xa0in which their services may be needed.\xa0One way of addressing the curricula gaps is to link learning institutions and industry. Another route is the commitment to undertake\xa0regular research based curricula review in order to provide relevant knowledge and skills.\xa0\n\xa0\nThe\xa0Africa We Want\xa0Conference has come at the right time for the continent. AS\n']]}, {'Date': 'October 6, 2017', 'Header': 'Analysis: HIV/AIDS is surging in Ethiopia, again', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], ['Samuel Bogale '], ['Addis Abeba – October 06/2017 – Accurate data on the number of Ethiopians who have died of HIV/AIDS in the last three decades in Ethiopia are hard to come bay, but according to an estimate by the Federal HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Office (FHAPCO), there were on average 19,743 deaths every year, which left behind about 247,250 children orphaned.'], ['Following its official discovery in 1984, HIV/AIDS has seen a rapid spread all over Ethiopia, putting the lives of millions at risk directly or indirectly. Owing to lack of awareness, similar trend is seen in many countries in Africa and Asia.'], ['Like many of these countries, Ethiopia’s fight against HIV/AIDS is one of the few highly paid for projects by western donors, which includes the over US$2 billion contribution by the U.S. government through its program called ‘President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR)’, making it the ever largest donation coming to the country for HIV/AIDS purpose. Owing to similar coordinated efforts, the spread of the virus has seen a decline over the last two decades especially in urban areas.'], ['The prevalence '], ['The WHO data reveals that up until the end of 2016 more than 70 million people worldwide have been infected with HIV/AIDS of whom about 35 million have died of HIV/AIDS and related complications. Currently, Sub-Saharan African is home to about 36.7 million people living with the virus, making it the most affected in the world.'], ['Data from FHAPCO indicates that there are over 718,550 people living with HIV in Ethiopia alone, a little over 1.18% of the population. According the globally accepted consensus, if the total number of HIV infected people in a given country exceeds the one per cent threshold of the population, that country is considered to be under category of ‘outbreak of the virus.’'], ['The 2016 Ethiopian Demographic Health Survey (DHS) reveals that around 56% of the women and 55% of the men among the surveyed household have never been tested for HIV, an indication the the current number of HIV positives in the country could be a lot more had all the population been tested. And, despite the existence of the large number of people living with HIV/AIDS, only 72% of them are thought to be aware that they are living with the virus; the remaining 28% think they are not infected.'], ['Dr. Achamyeleh Alebachew, Acting Director of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluating Directorate of FHAPCO, told Addis Standard that during the 90s and 2000s the number of HIV infected people was so high that among all the patients admitted to hospitals 1/3 to half tested positive for the virus.'], ['Although the spread of the virus has seen a significant decrease Ethiopia could not able to join the top five African countries to approach to control the HIV epidemic until 2020. According to a recent statement from PEPFAR, Lesotho, Malawi, Swaziland, Zambia, and Zimbabwe are the top 5 African countries where HIV epidemic is coming under control. And as of late, optimism was replaced by talk of the resurgence of the virus, especially among urban population and among university students, throughout the country.'], ['Tough on women '], ['When measuring the prevalence of HIV women tend to be more vulnerable than men. Of all the HIV positives in Ethiopia, 39% are men while women account for the remaining 61%, of which 25% of are commercial sex workers.'], ['According to the FHAPCO, 27,288 people were known to have been infected by HIV during the 2009 Ethiopian calendar; 16,021 (59%) were women whereas 11,267 (41%) were men. Among the three million pregnant women who are receiving medical follow up currently, around 27,000 of them are HIV positives.'], ['According to Abdu Ibrahim, Monitoring and Evaluation Officer at DKT Ethiopia, some of the reasons for that include, but not limited to, men’s domination of the economy, less participation of women in awareness program, and the sexual behaviors that render women more submissive than men. “Polygamy is common in some part of the country that it is common to see men having around three to four wives and can have sexual intercourse with many more,” Abdu told Addis Standard. “We usually don’t see women having sexual intercourse with multiple men but the men have multiple sexual partners.” And according to the U.S. Embassy PEPFAR Coordination Office in Addis Abeba, “gender norms and female physiology” contribute to the fact that women do “have disproportionately higher rates of HIV infection compared to men.” Women are negatively impacted by gender norms on access to HIV services as most of them are dependent on their male partners. For fear of rejection and violence by their partners, women are also unable to discuss their sexual activity and may not make use of health services.'], ['Gender-based violence (GBV) is another major factor contributing to increased numbers among women at risk of contracting HIV. The 2016 Ethiopian DHS report shows that among all the gender based violence in 2016, 7% of them were sexual, and one in 10 women among the surveyed experienced sexual violence. The report also mentions divorced, separated and widowed women as the most affected by sexual violence, compared to married women.'], ['Addis Abeba is the hardest hit '], ['Among the estimated four million residents thought to live in Addis Abeba HIV prevalence stads at a staggering 5% according to the FHAPCO data, which places the city on top of all regions in the country followed by Gambela (4%), Harar and Dire Dawa (2.9% each).'], ['Although most of the residents in the capital are considered to have access to awareness programs, knowledge of the disease, better access to health care and opportunity to obtain preventive mechanisms such as Condoms, currently Addis Abeba is reeling from unprecedented spread of the virus.'], ['Data collected by Addis Standard from Ghandi Memorial Hospital alone, for example, among the 111 mothers who were admitted for delivery in the last 12 months, 31 of them were HIV positive. And among 21 rape victims admitted to the same hospital nine of the victims were infected by the virus. Currently there are only 83 patients who are following HIV treatments at the hospital.'], ['At Yekatit 12 Hospital, another state run hospital, of the 520 people who went for HIV test only in the months of September and October 2016, the virus was found in 64 of them, amounting for 12% of the total number. And at Zewuditu Memorial Hospital, 318 people were tested for HIV in October 2016 of whom 61 were tested positive, about 19% of the total number of people who went for HIV test in that particular month.'], ['A report published on July 25, 2017 on the local weekly Capital newspaper reveals a staggering increase in the numbers of bars and pensions in Addis Abeba. According to the report, 777 new pensions and guest houses were opened in the city the four months preceding the report. These Pensions are mostly used for sexual activities both by young couples and commercial sex workers.'], ['Writing on his Facebook page, Dr. Andrew DeCort of the Ethiopian Graduate School of Theology (EGST) recently recounted his experience while walking “the backside of Chechigna”, a famous red-light district in Addis Abeba. “I walked for about 150 feet (45 meters) and counted 30 bars. Thirty. One after another. On both sides. For a distance of only 150 feet. On one street, among many others. Thirty. I stopped counting. I didn’t bother to count the abundant khat houses and seedy “pensions” where men take their erotic tere siga (raw meat) to settle their stomachs after drinking.”'], ['“Chechigna has the absurd feel of hell on earth.”'], ['What’s missing? \xa0'], ['DKT Ethiopia, DKTE, an organization selling family planning and reproductive health products, covers about 80% of the market, including delivery of condoms, in the country. The last 12 months data from DKTE shows that it had imported and distributed 51,421,563 male and 42,076 female condoms of which 22,496,651 were distributed only in Addis Abeba.'], ['In addition, DKTE is also involved in projects of awareness creation and behavior change mostly for university students and commercial sex workers. On one of their projects, Wise UP, there were around 31 centers in the country before two years where DKTE used to reach out to commercial sex workers and supports them with materials, trainings on behavior change, negotiation skills and life skills so that they can leave the job. However, according to Abdu, due to funding related issues the project is currently functioning only in two centers.'], ['For the first decade and half since the prevalence of HIV became the biggest threat in the country, several local and international NGOs have massively been engaged in the prevention of the disease and awareness creation programs. However, the number of NGOs and groups formed to prevent HIV have drastically shrunk in the wake of Ethiopia’s much criticized societies and charities law.'], ['Radio programs funded by donors were the main tools that were used to address the people to create awareness programs. All airwaves have since gone silent, as entertainment and sports talk shows have quietly crept up. “As to me, there is this perception that enough has been done on HIV and the people have enough comprehensive knowledge, so for these reasons financial supports provided to radio programs were cut,” says Sosina, host of Betegna, the only radio program on HIV broadcasting a weekly program on Sheger FM 102.'], ['Nevertheless, the 2016 DHS report shows that comprehensive knowledge of HIV is highest only among the wealthiest households and those with more than secondary education. Among the total population in the country, only half of the women and 69% of the men know the risk of getting HIV can be reduced by using condoms and limiting sex to only one uninfected partner. A figure which shows that awareness programs aren’t as satisfactory as said to be.'], ['The US pays the most '], ['Under the USAID, which remains the biggest foreign aid assisting organization in the country, the PEPFAR program is mainly engaged in combating HIV/AIDS in the country since it was launched in 2003. The program focuses on the\xa0prevention of sexual transmission\xa0of HIV, prevention of mother to child transmission,\xa0communications to encourage behavioral changes,\xa0and\xa0provision of\xa0condoms and other forms of prevention. It also funds the laboratory activities and supply chain management so as to advance the health system.'], ['A new research to be conducted beginning from 03 October, 2017, financed by the US and involving organizations including PEPFAR, CDC (Center for Disease Control), and ICAP Columbia University plans to collaborate with Ethiopian Public Health Institutes. The research is the first of its kind and will be assessing the current status of the virus, changes and challenges the fight against the spread of virus has faced so far.'], ['And on 19 September 2017, the USAID has launched a five year project of Community HIV Care and Treatment Activity at the Hilton Addis, for a budget of US$40 million funded through the PEPFAR. The project will engage in improving the lives of people living with the virus, increasing the health system efficiencies and also creating treatment access to Ethiopians.'], ['In her speech at the launching program of Community HIV Care and Treatment Activity, the USAID mission director Laslie Reed asked the community to commit themselves to helping the HIV positives to live their full lives, mentioning a quote she came across from an HIV positive woman, which reads: “The amount of time we spend at the health facility in the queues – a queue for triage, a queue for the nurse, a queue at the pharmacy and a queue for the labs – it’s too much time. I want to come to the facility only twice a year… I have a life to live.” AS']]}, {'Date': 'September 4, 2017', 'Header': 'Analysis: Addis Abeba may never house its dispossessed, unsheltered inner-city dwellers', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], ['Slums may remain permanent fixture of Addis Abeba'], ['Samuel Bogale '], ['Addis Abeba, September 04/2017 – On left side in the middle of the long stretch from Arat Kilo Square (otherwise known as ‘Victory Square’) down to Mesqel Square, lays the age-old Menilik II Palace (The residence of the prime minister) and one of the most protected and secured places in the country.\xa0 On the other side of the same road, a large plot of land fenced with green and yellow corrugated iron lays idle. Covered by the fences is an area famously known as Fit Ber (Front Gate), where thousands of the city’s poor lived for as long as 50 years. It is where Ephrem Ayele, (who requested his name to be changed for fear of “repercussions” from his Kebele administrators), lives with his wife and two of his kids in a combined plastic and corrugated iron makeshift ‘house’.\xa0'], ['Ephrme’s ‘house’ is barely a hundred meters away opposite one of the many gates of Menilik II Palace, and on the other side, roughly two hundred meters away, is the country’s luxuries five star hotel, Sheraton Addis. Previously, Ephrem and his neighbors lived in a poorly built and dilapidated mud houses which, by many standards, do not qualify for the name “house,” and were demolished in mid 2000s as part of the city government’s effort to clear the city off its slums.'], ['“I was born and raised here [as do] all of my friends you see around. I am living in this makeshift house with my wife and my kids ever since the area was demolished,” says Ephrem pointing at his ‘house. “We had [a better] house before but many of us did not get a replacement after it was demolished for development projects.”\xa0 Hundreds of others who lived in the same area were relocated to different parts, mostly to the outskirts of the city. “We didn’t want to take those options so we made these plastic shacks and continue to live here,” Ephrem told Addis Standard.'], [''], ['Ephrem and his neighbors had seen better housing'], ['Ephrem and his neighbors are not only forced to live in makeshift houses but also to sustain “the cruelty” of their Kebele administrators who “come and dismantle our plastic makeshift houses whenever they want to, or cover the area with corrugated iron fences whenever there is a high level meeting in the city or some international leaders visit the city,” says Haqegna Birega, another resident of the area. “They don’t put up the fences to make us feel secure, [but to cover the ugly site] and make it look acceptable for onlookers.”'], ['“Accumulation by dispossession”'], ['In the years between 2009 and 2015, the Addis Abeba city administration has expropriated 392 hectares of land from inner-city dwellers in four different sub-cities: Arada, Lideta, Kirkos, and Addis Ketema, and demolished more than 23,151 dilapidated houses for 23 Urban Renewal Project sites, according to a newly released report by the UN-Habitat.'], ['City authorities often argue that their efforts to upgrade slums in the city is primarily aimed at improving the living standards of poor people and the urban status of the city. It is, they insist, a necessary sacrifice. However, although the intention is not disputed by many, the process by which slums are demolished, the lack of adequate replacement and compensations has often come under criticisms both from the people affected, several researchers, and concerned urban planners.'], ['“I don’t buy the [narrative of] ‘sacrifice for a better future’, because the sacrifice is not equally paid by everyone. In practice it is not a ‘sacrifice for a better future’, it is rather a sacrifice for a better future of someone else,” said one such Urban Planning Expert who requested to remain anonymous in an interview with Addis Standard. According to him, when the city’s average household size of 4.3 (2007 population size divided by the total number of housing units) is multiplied by 23,151 demolished houses, it brings the number of city residents currently displaced to more than 100,000. It is a conservative estimate, and most of them are pushed out to the city’s periphery which have “less or no access” to social facilities and job opportunities.'], [''], ['Addis Abeba is full of houses that need to give way to better ones, but at whose cost?'], ['Our interviewee mentioned a recent development project in Kasanchis I site (the Radisson Blu Hotel area) as an example, where the people have paid “huge sacrifices” after relocating to areas which are “not easily accessible even by transport, and are far from schools, health and market facilities”. The ones that have benefited from many development projects are the upscale developers, stared hotels and luxury apartments that mushroomed in that area. “[The people] have paid huge sacrifices but not for themselves or their children’s future. It is impossible to give your child a better life while as parents your income is dwindling [due to lack of job opportunities] and at the same time living very far from the inner part of the city,” our interviewee says. \xa0The sacrifices city authorities often mention as necessary are therefore not to bring about a “bright future” for the ones paying the sacrifices, but for the “very few resourceful and privileged people.”'], ['Over the course of the last 10 years, many studies conducted on the impact of inner-city redevelopment projects have found out that displacements have resulted in social disarticulation, increased the time of travel to the nearest social service facilities, lack of employment opportunities and homelessness, among others. “David Harvey, a well-known professor of anthropology and geography, calls this process ‘Accumulation by Dispossession’”, says our interviewee, adding, “The City Administration is dispossessing the poor inner-city residents so that the upscale developers could accumulate more wealth.”'], ['Are condominium alternatives at risk? '], ['The Addis Abeba City Administration has built several condominium house project sites as alternate means of accommodating displaced peoples. The condominium housing projects built in Lideta, Yeka Abado, Basha Wolde Chilot, and Tulu Dimtu, for example, are but few that bear witness to that.'], ['Condominiums were trending, until recently'], ['However recent moves by the city administration shows the government is increasingly vying to use redevelopment sites primarily for stared hotels, shopping malls, and luxury apartment projects than building affordable housing. The redevelopment sites of Kasanchis II (Denver Café area) and the African Union II (in front of AU) are but two examples.'], ['In Addition to that, a few weeks ago the government has announced that it was planning to revise the current Urban Lease Proclamation to allocate land for five-star hotels, shopping malls and luxurious condominium developers without auctioning.'], ['Our interviewee fears this will end up in “transferring the prime land at cheaper prices to the upscale developers after expropriating the properties of poor citizens by paying them meager compensations, or in the case of tenants of government-owned houses with no compensation.”'], ['But even before the city authorities’ recent plan to change urban land provisions for upscale developers was announced, the massive condominium projects the city has been undertaking for several years is besieged by lack of finance, corruption, proper implementations and poor infrastructure designs.'], ['In the backdrop of this is the grim estimate by many state-owned and private media organizations that going by the current pace, it will take several decades to house the thousands of inner-city dwellers registered to get a house. “Bear in mind that the number of people who demand affordable housing is not static,” said our interviewee, “it will increase annually in response to migration and the new entrants to adulthood (18+).”'], ['Perhaps cognizant of this grim reality, City Administration officials have recently unveiled yet another plan to facilitate cooperative housing programs. Speaking to state affiliated media organizations, Diriba Kuma, Mayor of Addis Abeba, said in September 2016 that, \xa0“to enable people to be owners of their own house, the government is setting out a plan to construct new houses for 20, 000 civil servants. Construction of the new houses is necessitated as far as [condominiums] alone cannot solve the housing conundrum.”'], ['A year later not only has the program started (it is awaiting for city administration cabinet members’ approval), but there is no indication on whether or not it will address the demands of those already made homeless by previous projects.'], ['Promises broken, slums kept '], ['The latest report by the UN-Habitat estimates that 80% of Addis Abeba’s population live in houses that do not qualify as such. \xa0Most of these houses are owned by private individuals and the government.'], ['The city government had launched the much hyped Integrated Housing Development Program (IHDP) project in 2005, and promised to clear the inner-city slums and poor neighborhoods by building “up to 50, 000 houses per year”. Accordingly, many of the city’s notorious slum areas and poor neighborhoods, such as the ones in Fit Ber and Basdha Wode Chilot, were demolished at the speed of light, displacing thousands without proper replacement. But twelve years on, the City Administration of Addis Abeba is able to build just about *175,000 houses so far.'], ['Still holding onto the promise of getting better housing facilitated by the city government, by the year 2013 more than 900,000 city dwellers were registered to get affordable and clean houses, and have started saving millions in the state owned Commercial Bank of Ethiopia. But, 12 years on, as city authorities faltered to deliver on their ambitious plans, many fear if they could ever get their savings back, and inner-city slums remained prominent features of the city. The promises are broken and the slums remained.'], ['Biruk, 26, is another resident of the city living in a slum around Janmeda area, near the expansive French Embassy. He lives with his parents and two siblings. “We have to share communal toilet with around 50 of our neighbors. I have to go to some hotels to take shower twice or once in a week,” Biruk told Addis Standard. By saving for a condominium house from his meager income, all he wanted to get was “a small house with access to clean toilet and shower, and live a simple life.”'], ['That is something his income wouldn’t allow if he had to rent a house of his dream, small it is. \xa0“It would cost me more than I earn. I don’t have any choice but to live here with my family and support myself and my family until we get [the house of our dream].”'], [''], ['Biruk and around 50 of his neighbors share communal toilets'], ['Biruk’s monthly income is 3,000 Ethiopian birr (About US$125). While millions of the city’s poor consider such income as a better income already, Biruk is in no position to spend 30% of his income on housing alone, a conservative estimate per a given household one needs to spend to get decent housing, according to UN-Habitat.'], ['The story of Biruk and thousands like him who are trapped in no-win no-lose poverty flies in the face of the government’s major narrative that it is a champion of pro-poor polices.'], ['No rain please! Not now, not again '], ['Beyond the quantum of highlighting city authorities’ failure, however, it is important to look at the immeasurable suffering of tens of thousands of inadequately sheltered city residents who simply do not have permanent incomes that could cover for their basic social needs such as food and access to health, let alone housing. This is also a section of the society where addiction to substances including drugs and alcohol among the youth is rampant, and where the women are more vulnerable to sexual abuses and other forms of exploitations.'], ['But above all, the current rainy season, which is heavier than usual, has united all of them in their sufferings. A recent report by Addis Zemen, a government daily, revealed the partial extent of flooding in June this year that affected an entire neighborhood.\xa0 According to Debela Biru, Addis Abeba Rivers and River Banks management bureau head, his office has identified 37 flood-prone areas within the city, of which 24 were given priority due to the severe nature of the damages expected this rainy season. But all the same the rain continues taking heavy toll on all.'], ['The sight of rooftops loaded with rocks and other heavy materials to prevent them from either sinking by the weight of the water or flying by the power of the wind is a prominent appearance on thousands of houses in the inner-city.\xa0 Inside, buckets serve to collect steady trickles of water from the roof, something Ephreme’s family are accustomed to do.'], ['Hopes are fading '], ['Back in Fit Ber, Ephrem and his neighbors know all too well that their dreams of one day having a proper roof over their heads “may never come true”. And a recent fresh attempt by city administration officials to demolish 3000 more houses located on 360 hectares of land in Yeka Sub City comes as just another reminder that theirs too will not last any longer than it already did.'], ['But more than anything else, it was a cover page story on 01 March 2017 by the government daily Addis Zemen that delivered the ultimate shock: it estimated it will take the City Administration at least 55 years to fulfill the housing needs of those who are already registered and are saving money at the state owned commercial bank.'], ['“I believe the government needs to facilitate housing provisions for the middle and high income people and take the [sole] responsibility of housing the poor and the homeless to itself. But what the government is doing [now] is the reverse; it is trying to build for the rich, who can pay the full price of 40/60 apartments upfront while efforts to house the poor, the homeless and the poorest of the poor have received less attention,” said our Urban planner interviewee.\xa0 AS\xa0']]}]
[{'Date': 'November 29, 2016', 'Header': 'Ethiopia to host Africa regional conference on abortion', 'news_paragraphs': [['Experts will discuss issues ranging from research to policy into action toward ending unsafe abortion in Africa'], ['Addis Abeba Nov. 29/2016 – The Africa Regional Conference on Abortion: From Research to Policy\xa0will be held from today to Friday, December 2, 2016, in Addis Abeba, Ethiopia. According to organizers, the Guttmacher Institute, African Population and Health Research Center and Ipas, the conference “builds on a decade of work linking research to action to reduce unsafe abortion in Sub-Saharan Africa.”'], ['The three-day event will bring together 250 researchers, policymakers, advocates, health care providers, youth, journalists and donors who are focused on reducing the detrimental impact of unsafe abortion on African women, especially young women and adolescents, as well as on their families and on society as a whole.'], ['According to figures from the organizers, an estimated 56 million abortions occur each year worldwide. The proportion of abortions that are performed under unsafe conditions is not currently known. “However, complications from unsafe abortions are common in developing regions, where the procedure is often highly restricted.\xa0In Africa, women have more than eight million abortions each year, many of which are unsafe.” About 1.6 million women in the region are treated annually for complications from unsafe abortion – many women experience complications and do not receive the treatment they need. According to the most recent estimates, at least 9% of maternal deaths in Africa annually are due to unsafe abortion.'], ['It is estimated that 90% of African women of childbearing age live in countries with restrictive abortion laws, and even where the law allows abortion under certain circumstances, few women are able to navigate the processes required to obtain a safe and legal procedure.'], ['Unsafe abortion is a major public health problem, not only in countries where access to safe abortion is highly restricted, but also where it is legally allowed. The Africa Regional Conference on Abortion will highlight findings from research studies and how they have contributed to changes in policy and practice, as well as improvements in abortion policy and programs, during the last decade.'], ['The Africa Regional Conference on Abortion also celebrates more than a decade since passage of the law in Ethiopia that decriminalized abortion and paved the way for a national safe abortion program under a broad set of conditions.'], ['In 2005, the Ethiopian Parliament enacted one of Africa’s most progressive abortion laws. A year later, the Ethiopian Ministry of Health released guidelines for safe abortion services, making major progress toward implementing revisions of the country’s abortion law.'], ['“The conveners hope that this important meeting will allow us to capitalize on what came before and continue to move forward. Organizers said, adding “we know that the more than 200 attendees at this conference, along with their organizations and partners, will continue to build the evidence to support ending unsafe abortion in all parts of Africa.” AS']]}, {'Date': 'June 28, 2016', 'Header': 'Analysis: Ma’ekelawi! Why is Ethiopia still running a ‘Torture Chamber’ from the past?', 'news_paragraphs': [['Kalkidan Yibeltal & Tesfalem Waldyes'], ['In Piassa, an area many consider to be the heart of Addis Abeba, rests the Ethiopian Federal Police Force Central Bureau of Criminal Investigation, otherwise known by its Amharic name, Ma’ekelawi (Amharic for central). Notorious for the sever torture detainees are subjected to inside its enclosures, Ma’ekelawi is a time defying institution which has been in use for more than half a century in Ethiopia, sadly for the same purpose.'], [''], ['During the dark days of the Marxist Derg regime between 1974 and 1991, Ma’ekelawi served as a place where thousands of dissenters were exposed to cruelties including disquieting torture and arbitrary killings. More than three decades down the line many of those who survived Ma’ekelawi live a life overshadowed by what happened when they were incarcerated, struggling to fully overcome the experience as they carry the burden of the darkest chapters in their lives.'], ['Today nowhere is that history of horror visibly displayed than at the Red Terror Martyr’s Museum around Mesqel Square in central Addis Abeba. The Museum’s motto, “Never Ever Again”, speaks volumes about the atrocities committed inside Ma’ekelawi throughout the 17 years in power of the Derg regime.'], ['The Red Terror Martyr’s Museum was built by the current regime in Ethiopia in honor of the people who perished during its predecessor’s infamous Red Terror campaign of 1977-1978. An estimated number of more than half a million Ethiopians were killed during that brutal campaign; and many of the victims have gone through the terrible experience of life at Ma’ekelawi.'], ['For the survivors of the campaign, the Red Terror Martyr’s Museum is a place where solace and comfort can be sought. Some survivors who were approached by this magazine found talking about the horrendous experience they had gone through inside the fortress of Ma’ekelawi too much to bear, rendering our attempts to get their stories futile.'], ['Fast forward, decades later and a completely different government that has ‘democratic’ written all over it, and that waged a civil war against a regime which partially depended on what happened inside Ma’ekelawi to extend its grip on power, the story of Ma’ekelawi remained intact.'], ['Wofe-Lala – Derg’s favorite torture method'], ['\xa0‘Chambers of horror’'], ['Other than its frightening name, a great number of present-day Ethiopians know little about either the physical structure or the torture techniques applied inside Ma’ekelawi. But a 2013 Human Rights Watch (HRW) report titled: “They Want a Confession: Torture and Ill treatment in Ethiopia’s Ma’ekelawi Police Station,” revealed a chilling account. It documented in detail the scale of human rights abuses, unlawful investigation tactics, and detention conditions practiced between the years of 2010 and 2013. It accuses investigators of using coercive methods including several ways of torture to extract confessions, statements, and other information from detainees. Depending on their compliances with the demands of investigators, the report said, detainees are punished or rewarded with denial or access to water, food, light, and other basic needs.They are also subjected to sever physical tortures involving beatings and punishments by stressful positions such as hanging them with their wrists tied to ceilings, or being made to stand with their hands tied above their heads for several hours.'], ['The US State Department’s annual Human Right Report on Ethiopia, which was released in April this year, also admits that “there were credible reports police investigators used physical and psychological abuse to extract confessions in Ma’ekelawi. Interrogators reportedly administered beatings and electric shocks to extract information and confessions from detainees.”'], ['Both reports have been corroborated by several detainees (past and present) who were interviewed by Addis Standard for this story. (See selected stories here and here).'], ['Many of them refer to Ma’ekelawi as “chambers of horror.”'], [''], ['“For many of the detainees Tawla Bet is a place of heartache, guilt and moral dilemma”'], ['Inside the ‘Chambers of horror’'], ['Ma’ekelawi has three different blocks with conditions significantly differing amongst them. Based on the locations and the facilities inside; the three blocks are known as Siberia, Tawla Bet & Sheraton.'], ['‘Siberia’ '], ['The worst of the three blocks is called Siberia for none other than the cells’ freezing temperature. \xa0Siberia alone has between seven and 10 cells at a time, all ranging from 16 to 25 square meters in size. (The number of the cells can go up and down depending on the number of detainees received at a time. And when detainees overwhelm the block, the management converts rooms that serve as storage places or communal rooms into detention centers).'], ['One of the cells in Siberia, cell number 8, is partitioned into four separate cells and is used to keep detainees in solitary confinement. The rooms are just big enough to accommodate a mattress to sleep and a bucket to urinate on. They have no window and no light inside, which is why they are called “Chelema Bet” (Amharic for Dark House).'], ['The rest of the Siberia block hosts communal cells, which are lined up along a long corridor facing one another. They do share similar features with “Chelema Bet”: the rooms are naturally dark except for a dim fluorescent light hanging on a barred, small window near each ceiling. The metal doors have small peepholes, often covered on cardboard, and are kept locked for 24 hours. Detainees inside these communal cells are allowed to have just 10 minutes of access to daylight per day.\xa0 The only other stuffs in each communal cell are mattresses, a bucket and a few food bowls. Up to 20 detainees (sometimes more) are forced to share each of the communal cells, which are not more than 4X5 square meters in size.'], ['At one end of the corridor there are five filthy toilets and a shower located adjacent the toilets, all for communal use. While showering is allowed once a week, accessing the toilet is restricted to 15 minutes at a time, twice a day; and as if that is not enough discomfort the toilets don’t have doors to give detainees the privacy they need.'], ['‘Tawla Bet’ '], ['Tawla Bet (Amharic for wooden house), is where those who are coerced to testify against fellow detainees are kept as prosecutors’ key witnesses. For many of the detainees Tawla Bet is a place of heartache, guilt and moral dilemma;\xa0 many of them are brought into a point of mental breakdown to testify against fellow detainees under sever duress.'], ['Tawla Bet is also where female detainees are kept. Although most of the regulations are similar with Siberia, the doors in Tawla Bet cells can stay open during daytime, allowing detainees to sit at their doorstep and sometimes move from one cell to the other, a precious asset inside the two blocks.'], ['‘Sheraton’'], ['Named after Ethiopia’s luxurious hotel, Sheraton is a block in which detainees are indulged with a movement as well as access to lawyers and relatives. They can also watch television – mainly broadcast of the state TV programs – at daytime. \xa0Detainees who went through interrogations in Siberia and Tawla Bet and are waiting to be officially charged are the primary occupants of the Sheraton block.'], ['The political element'], ['Amha Mekonen, a prominent defense attorney who has represented some of the high profile defendants in recent years – including the much publicized case of Zone9 bloggers – is no stranger to the stories of Ma’ekelawi detailed in the HRW report. “Defendants who are detained at Ma’ekelawi often complain that they are subjected to inhuman treatments,” he tells this magazine. “Some of the defendants even manage to convince courts that they indeed have been abused and assaulted.”'], ['One key problem Amha sees with Ma’ekelawi is that “the division initiates investigation without actually having any real ground to suspect that there is a crime that warrants an investigation. Many say this happens when the case is politically motivated. I am not sure whether that is true or not. What I am sure is the fact that there are instances when the division begins investigation without having sufficient evidence,” he says.'], ['But for the HRW’s report the political element in Ma’ekelawi’s conduct is not easy to miss. The facility is the first stop for the majority of the country’s opposition politicians, journalists, protest organizers, and alleged supporters of ethnic insurgencies once all are taken into police custody, the report says.'], ['Article 6/1 of the Ethiopian Federal Police Commission Establishment Proclamation 720/2011 gives the Federal Police the duty to prevent and investigate any threat and acts of crime against the Constitution and the constitutional order, security of the government and the state and human rights offenses. As a result the majority detainees in Ma’ekelawi are suspected of committing Federal offenses.'], ['Furthermore, Ethiopia’s introduction in 2009 of the infamous Anti-Terrorism Proclamation (ATP) has made Ma’ekelawi an important site for the detention and investigation of most of the politically sensitive cases, according to the HRW report. The provisions included in Ethiopia’s ATP seriously undermine basic legal safeguards against prolonged pre-charge detentions. Thus, once accused of offenses under this law, the facilities at Ma’ekelawi automatically become home to the majority of detainees in preparation for their trials, according to the report.'], ['As of late the facility is overcrowded, Amha says. “I heard that they are transferring some of the detainees to Addis Abeba Police Commission nearby,” he says. “This shows that they are overwhelmed with cases. It might be criminal cases or something else. It might be something the government wants to suppress. It can be politically motivated,” Amha opines, but Tsegaye Ararssa, a Melbourne-based legal scholar, is unambiguous in his assertion: “the fact that the larger proportion of detainees are political prisoners and prisoners of conscience indicates that something is wrong with the way the politics is run in that country,” he told this magazine in a written interview.'], ['One of the factors that made living conditions inside Ma’ekelawi hellish has always been the disproportionately big numbers of people forced to stay in a single room. “We hear that around 12 sometimes up to 15 people are detained in a cell which is no wider than 4 meter square,” says Amha.'], ['Recently, Bekele Gerba, first secretary general of the opposition Oromo Federalist Congress (OFC) – and who is going through life at Ma’ekelawifor the second time – \xa0made a passionate plea at a federal court that he and 21 other detainees were forced to stay at a “4×5 meter cell that included a toilet”.'], ['The Constitution: Ma’ekelawi’s first victim '], ['The operations inside Ma’ekelawi are not only against basic human rights but are at odds with the Supreme Law of the land, the constitution, as well as other laws the country governs itself by, according to Amha. \xa0For Tsegaye the essential purpose of Ma’ekelawi is “regime security not human security” and as such it has become an institution that flouts the rights and security of citizens that are otherwise guaranteed in the country’s constitution.'], ['Article 19 (2/5) of the Ethiopian Constitution, for example, asserts that people under police custody should not be forced to make confessions or make admissions which could be “used in evidence against them”. It nullifies any evidence obtained under coercion as inadmissible in the court of law. And article 24 of Proclamation No. 720/2011 prohibits the police from committing, “any inhuman or degrading treatment or act.”'], ['In addition, regulation on the Treatment of Federal Prisoners 138/2007 (art. 3/1) clearly states that “no discrimination on grounds of gender, language, religion, political opinion nation/nationality, social status or citizen,” while art. 3/2 of the same Regulation guarantees “respect to [the detainees’] human dignity unless restricted by the penalties imposed on them.”'], ['Nonetheless detainees at Ma’ekelawi are not only refused access to lawyers and relatives, but are subjected to tortures. “[Similar] tortures we have been hearing in the Derg period such as hanging a bottle of water on male genitals, electric shock, beating, being forced to stand for a long time, and other forms of prolonged interrogations,” are committed against detainees, says Amha, adding that defendants also experience self-incrimination and coercion to testify against co-defendants. \xa0“What is more astonishing is the level of details and [organized narratives] we find on those confessions. It is as if they were [composed] by someone with a literary background. No one in his right mind incriminates himself in that manner,” Amha says.'], ['Tsegaye reinforces Amha’s point. “In Ethiopian detention centers fact is not found, or discovered, as such; they are made. They are created in the course of the ‘investigation’”.'], ['Many detainees are brought from remote areas all over the country. For them the pain is twice as much. “They are separated from their social background and support system. There might even be a language barrier. I am not sure if Ma’ekelawi is equipped with proper translation mechanism during interrogations,” says Amha. “And what is worse is after having gone through painful and life-altering months or even years at Ma’ekelawi, they might be acquitted and walk free,” he adds.'], ['According to Tsegaye, “the fact that detainees come from afar disconnects them from their family and their support system thereof. But more importantly such distance from one’s place of residence becomes a barrier to access to justice. Physical distance, cultural distance, and linguistic distance are the three major barriers to access to justice,” Tsegaye said, adding that when a detainee is far removed from his/her own place of residence it “makes it more difficult to gather evidence even for the investigator.” \xa0But because the main focus is on “infliction of pain on the ‘suspect’ rather than finding facts, often this fact is neglected.”'], ['To ease this problem, if not to solve it, Amha suggests that other criminal investigation facilities should be established in regional states. Further explaining on this, Tsegaye says that in principle regional states\xa0can – and perhaps should – have their own system of criminal investigation. But their power would be confined to the crimes over which they have jurisdiction. (The States have legislative competence over criminal matters that are not covered by the federal criminal code.)'], ['As per Proclamation No. 25/1996 (and its amendments since), the State Supreme Courts have jurisdiction over cases that were meant to appear in the Federal High Court, according to Tsegaye. “State High Courts would adjudge cases that are normally under the jurisdiction of the Federal First Instance Court. This practice suggests that, to this extent, the Ethiopian federal system is merely an executive/administrative federal system. (That is to say, it is a federal system where the federal government has a legislative power whereas the States have an executive/administrative power. The State institutions enforce or execute federal laws), Tsegaye explains.'], ['Back to a lingering past'], ['On February 26, 1977 44 prisoners were picked from Ma’ekelawi and were taken to the outskirts of the city where they were executed and buried in a mass grave, Babile Tola, a survivor of Ma’ekelawi, recounts in his book, “To Kill a Generation: the Red Terror in Ethiopia.” The youngest of the 44 was only 17 while many of them were aged between 17 and 26. The story of the secret mass execution was brought to light thanks to two prisoners who managed to jump and escape out of the police van on their way to their execution. One of them was the young Hilawi Yosef, who subsequently joined the armed struggle against the Derg regime.'], ['After putting the stories during the armed struggle behind him Hilawi Yosef served in several senior positions in the incumbent’s government. Asked by this magazine to relate his story of the Ma’ekelawi Hilawi, who is currently serving as Ethiopia’s Ambassador to Israel, declined to return our email, but his story was narrated in Babile Tola’s historical book, as well as Girmaye Abraha’s “Yemiyanebu Egroch” (Amharic for “The feet that weep”), an apparent reference to the tortures that leave detainees’ feet bleeding.'], ['In addition to Ambassador Hilawi Yosef, several other officials in the current government have been, at one point or another, detained at Ma’ekelawi during the Derg regime. It is a fact that leaves Ma’ekelawi’s current victims mystified and in endless search for answers on the logic of keeping and running an institution that many died fighting against.'], ['So why is Ma’ekelawi still running? '], ['For Tsegaye, the core reason for its existence as the prime source of state terror is the fundamental insecurity of the Ethiopian state. “There lacks to be a political will to demolish this prime example of the apparatus of state repression,” he says. The US state department report revealed that majority of mistreatments happen in “Ma’ekelawi and police stations rather than federal prisons.”'], ['Amha carefully points at the existence of other facilities as a viable alternative to (at least) replace the deteriorating physical infrastructure of Ma’ekelawi, but agrees with Tsegaye that lack of political will is what is holding the change back. “You can find the evidence to that within a walking distance. The newly built Addis Abeba Police Commission has a much better criminal investigation block and facility. If there was a political will, the same improvements could have been done to Ma’ekelawi.”'], ['However, Amha says he doesn’t have any problem with the existence of a Federal Criminal Investigation facility. “My problem is with how it is being operated. [Also] for symbolic reasons, I would prefer it if it is somewhere else because of the horrible memories associated with that place.”'], ['Tsegaye argues that the structure and even the name of Ma’ekelawi should have been altered to “reflect the changed politico-administrative structure of the country. Taking account of the federal set up, the name could have changed\xa0into ‘Federal Bureau of Criminal Investigation’. That it hasn’t changed even in name already betrays the virtually non-federal political culture and the political practice of the country to date.”'], ['Tsegaye is of the view that if there was a serious thinking into it, such a change – the change from a unitary system to a federal one – would have offered an “opportunity to move away from the dastardly, imperial, and barbaric practices\xa0that [Ma’ekelawi] represents and is a symbol of.”'], ['One obstacle that hindered this change, according to Tsegaye, is the fact that Ma’ekelawi has never been put to the light of political and legal accountability. “It has never been publicly criticized (for its misdeeds) in representative political institutions (such as Parliamentary Oversight Committees); its power, finance, and personnel have never been put to a transparent audit system; the legal foundation of that institution, its competence (such as the matters it has jurisdiction over), its jurisdiction, and its responsibility framework has never been publicly accounted for.”'], ['Aside from the visible lack of political will (see our editorial here), lack of skill in crime investigation is yet another factor that contributes to the brutal handling of detainees under police custody, Tsegaye adds. “Criminal investigation is a science, a profession in its own right. Detection requires a distinct set of skills that have to be put to use in the investigation of a particular crime.” From his stint as a lecturer at the Police College, Tsegaye remembers “being told that no one was trained in criminal investigation.”'], ['Tsegaye is under no illusion that judging from its ultimate purpose as a tool of repression, its ideal location in the heart of Piassa (comforted by a general silence), and the total information blackout on the purpose and everyday conduct of the injustice inside its fortress, the current government is, unfortunately, poised to continue running Ma’ekelawi, despite it being a\xa0 “monument of state barbarity” and a “primary institution that serves as the true face of the repressive regimes – past and present.”']]}, {'Date': 'May 27, 2015', 'Header': 'The ascendance of “Development Fetishism”', 'news_paragraphs': [['Taye Negussie (PhD)'], ['In its literal definition, the term development is generally understood to mean an intentionally conceived course of action that aims to realize the full potential of a given population. Though previously the notion of planned development was largely confined to communist countries, it now seems to have drawn some attention across the board.'], ['Probably, the reason why the word has attracted attentions outside the communist block was partly due to the phenomenal success registered with US Marshal Plan and “Reverse Course” program to rehabilitate the war-torn Europe and Japan respectively in the aftermath of World War II.'], ['Later on, several attempts have been made to replicate the success of the aforementioned planned development interventions in most developing countries after they won their political independence. Nevertheless, unlike the European and Japanese case, an all-out success with planned development in many of the developing countries, with the exception of a handful of Asian and Latin American countries, had remained until very recently quite a distant dream.'], ['To the contrary, the net outcome of long years of planned development interventions in many of these countries for the most part ended in creating unbridgeable income gap between the rich and the poor, pervasive poverty, environmental degradation, chronic political dictatorship, civil wars, insecurity and instability.'], ['The ever changing economic models and strategies which these countries have opted to on various occasions such as economic growth approach, centrally planned socialist economy, growth and transformation plan, structural-adjustment program, poverty alleviation program, participatory development and all that could well be symptomatic of the crisis of planned development in the past decades.'], ['Of course, in speaking the adoption of a development model, it is worth noticing that there may be several internal and external factors that directly or indirectly impact the choice made by a given country. The competing major international ideological orientations, the fashionable development discourses, the leverage and influence of hegemonic powers, the influence of global financial and economic institutions, bilateral and multilateral diplomatic relationships between and among countries and the political and ideological orientations of the powers that be are to mention but a few.'], ['Be that as it may, in this article I would like to argue about Ethiopia’s adoption of the ‘developmental state’ ideology that can largely be attributed to the incumbent’s political interest to mend legitimacy crisis and carry on with its repressive rule. And for this to happen it has apparently resorted to different political strategies as briefly discussed below.'], ['Mystifying development'], ['One of the biggest lessons learned from the failure of the first ever attempted ‘economic growth’ model that sought only to enhance the national economic wealth of the nation – GDP – was that a true and sustainable development must give due attention to all-round development which includes, among others, the economic, social, moral, intellectual and spiritual needs and demands of the larger population.'], ['Subsequently, this has led to the new concept of an inclusive, participatory and human-centered development that has found wide currency since the 1980s. Such concepts of development also compel the need to make citizens active and conscious actors in a development process that ultimately determines their destiny.'], ['Contrary to this, what is now transpiring in Ethiopia largely looks a full-blown psychological campaign to instill false-consciousness among the people by elevating the notion of development to a mystique and idol stature. The intention behind this clearly lies in making people unconscious and unquestioning actors who would readily submit to everything that comes in the name of development.'], ['Consider the unrelenting media propaganda which scarcely misses mentioning development in the course of the day. Now, each and every government initiation comes wrapped with the tag of development. While a view or an action that aligns with the government would soon receive the honorific title of ‘developmental’, in contrast, any dissenting view or action would quickly be admonished as ‘anti-development’. In short, observing how the term development is used today in Ethiopia, probably one gets the impression that it might have acquired a new meaning which approximates something ‘sacred’.'], ['Just imagine for a moment what a message of a sticker commonly put on the door of a soon-to-be-demolished shop that reads, “Sealed for Development Purpose” implicitly implies. In this connection, it is also worth to recall the occasion some years back when the top religious leaders had appeared on the public media to ‘consecrate’ the “Great Renaissance Dam” whereby they pronounced any non-consenting gesture towards the construction of the dam to be viewed as a kind of blasphemy that deserves some sort of admonition.'], ['When people attempt to make the things that they themselves have created an object of worship, in the Marxist economic discourse, it is often said to be a form of fetishism. Thus, the unrelenting effort that the Ethiopian government has been waging supposedly to mystify and idolize the notion of development could be none other than “development fetishism”.'], ['Development as a pretext'], ['One major reason for instilling the attitude of “development fetishism” among the people seems to lie in the government’s ambition of attaching itself with a rather eye-catching infrastructural and building construction activities now underway in the country irrespective of its effect on the living realities of the ordinary mass and thereby portray itself as an indispensable actor without which Ethiopia’s development would be impossible to think of.'], ['In this regard, it’s worth looking back at the circumstances that led the government to proclaim the status of ‘developmental state’ some few years back. Apparently, the government switched to the idea of ‘developmental state’ following the infamous 2005 election when it lost its credibility with the larger public. Furthermore, it was followed by the time when it kept itself busy with issuing some draconian laws. From this it follows that the declaration of ‘developmental state’ was but a tacit act of openly installing an authoritarian system.'], ['After all, the notion of ‘developmental state’ is often associated either with those Asian countries with a communist political system or naked authoritarian regimes that have clung to power for so long, except Japan.'], ['Evidently, all the messages and actions that now emanate from the ruling party in connection with the upcoming election also well signify how the ruling part is determined to use development as an excuse to cling to power indefinitely without any serious contender. Ironically, all this is not only against the unrelenting rhetoric of democracy and freedom but also in flagrant contradiction to the spirit of the constitution that itself has given birth to.'], ['Fought for the sake of development or justice?'], ['While proclaiming the status of developmental state which is in many ways repressive, the present day rulers seem to have forgotten why in the first place they had fought a bitter war against the former repressive regime, the Dergue. Surely, it was not so much for the sake of primarily economic development as it was for social justice.'], ['As a matter of fact, development – especially that of material and physical – is just one among many other important duties and functions that a just government is required to carry out. This is not to say, however, for poor countries like ours the issue of development is not an imperative one. Yet, to promote development at the expense of justice, the rule of law, freedom and democratic rights, which in fact are crucial for sustainable development, presumably by virtue of being a ‘developmental state’ is very much unbecoming of such a sort of government.'], ['\xa0\nAbove all, the essence of a truly democratic government lies in its commitment to advance the freedom and democratic right as well as the welfare and security of its citizens. Indeed, the prime difference between authoritarian and democratic government rests on the fact that in the latter such great questions as development that evidently bears great stake in the life of people are to be decided not by whims and illusions of an individual or a group of tyrannical rulers but by well-informed, rational needs and demands of the larger citizens. Certainly, no thoughtful and rational government would attempt to reduce citizens to be blind worshipers of an idol that is created for political purpose. As the eminent classical sociologist Emile Durkheim had put it, “A healthy political system requires good faith and the avoidance of force and fraud. It requires, in a word, justice.”'], ['\xa0\nEd’s Note: The writer can be reached at tayesosa@yahoo.com'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'April 6, 2015', 'Header': 'Ethiopia’s current election :  ‘Eliminating the contestant ahead of the match’', 'news_paragraphs': [['Taye Negussie(PhD)'], ['\xa0'], ['It could well be said that literally no election had been completed happily to the minimal satisfaction of many contending political actors, and notably to a fair contentment of the Ethiopian people, ever since the assumption of power by the ruling Ethiopian People Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF) in 1991. Nor is it uncommon to hear the major opposition parties blaming the ruling party for imposing upon them unbearable financial, physical, psychological and morale constrains before or during every election.'], [''], ['\xa0'], ['Often, at the center of dissension are issues that have to do with the questionable impartiality of the National Electoral Board of Ethiopia (NEBE) and other state institutions directly or indirectly impacting the process and outcome of general elections. Owing to this, there were even occasions in the past whereby some opposition parties have gone to the extent of boycotting the ensuing election all together.'], ['\xa0'], ['In somewhat unprecedented manner this time around however instead of the major opposition parties boycotting the election, it rather seems that they are to be systematically pushed away by the incumbent, as it were, ‘eliminating the contestant ahead of the match’.'], ['\xa0'], ['This assertion bases itself on the recent decision of NEBE that apparently legitimated a few disgruntled individuals at the expense of the larger party-bodies of two relatively stronger opposition parties – Unity for Democracy and Justice (UDJ), and All Ethiopian Unity Party (AEUP)–that effectively disqualified them from taking part in the upcoming election.'], ['\xa0'], ['\xa0'], ['Given the all-too-familiar intense psychological and moral justifying propaganda work by pro-government media in the days and weeks ahead, the decision never came as a surprise for many of us who have already been well accustomed to that sort of familiar dirty tricks.'], ['\xa0'], ['\xa0'], ['No matter how hard the concerned authorities have toiled to portray the issue as mere intra-party wrangling, all the symptoms and treatment of the episode bear the mark of the rather well-known ‘invisible-hand’ of the classic EPRDF’s treacherous Machiavellian Politics.'], ['\xa0'], ['After all, the present victim parties were particularly the ones that had uncharacteristically heated up the momentum of rhetoric and actions in the preceding weeks and months by openly declaring their intent to unseat the incumbent in the forthcoming election.'], ['\xa0'], ['Moreover, by virtue of their character, no doubt that these parties would be read in the political dictionary of the incumbent as the ‘spiritual heir’ of the defunct Coalition party – best known as Kinjit just a decade ago – thus, worthy of deserving the same destiny, only with the added caution this time around of taking the surgical action much ahead of the election.'], ['\xa0'], ['Now, we may wonder that after having accomplished relatively well at least in the area of physical infrastructural construction activities in the past few years, why should the incumbent implicate itself in such type of treacherous election politics.'], ['\xa0'], ['In my view, there are many possible reasons for that out of which a few are discussed very briefly as follows.\nThe confidence and credibility factor'], ['\xa0'], ['It goes without saying that the single most important asset that a political party could have during elections is that of the level of popularity that it enjoys amongst the larger public. In most advanced countries this is measured by neutral, specialized agencies in the form of opinion polls to gauge the rating of political actors with their citizens.'], ['\xa0'], ['In cases where such sort of formal measurement is lacking – as is the case here in Ethiopia – indirect measurements like general public attitude to government officials, enthusiasm of public responses to official events, attendance rate to pro-government media, informal conversations, and stories could well serve as important tools for estimating the level of popularity of a ruling party among the mass of citizens.'], ['\xa0'], ['If viewed in light of these parameters, it will not be difficult to see how much the ruling party in Ethiopia is indeed faring badly.'], ['\xa0'], ['Apparently, this is not without reason. For instance, anyone remotely familiar with the discourse of the incumbent knows all too well that the rhetoric of democracy, justice, freedom and equality occupies quite a prominent place. Yet, what the track record of almost a quarter of a century of its rule as a government power reveals is that it is indeed in these same areas of rhetoric that we find the incumbent failing so terribly.'], ['\xa0'], ['I suppose the recent party’s shift to the discourse of the primacy of development over democracy is an indicative of not only becoming untrue to its very promise when assuming power but also an indirect testimony to its failure in delivering the promise – reason enough to seriously jeopardize its credibility.'], ['\xa0'], ['Meanwhile, the incumbent’s long standing policy and practice of attaching far more credit to party loyalty over capability of individuals for governmental positions might have as well its own detrimental impact. This is often evidenced in extremely poor quality, if not non-existent, delivery of essential public services by incompetent, inexperienced and unmotivated personnel. This, coupled with rapidly growing corruption in nearly all sectors, will definitely deliver a significant blow to public confidence towards the incumbent.'], ['\xa0'], ['Furthermore, as was once revealed by the late Prime Minister Meles Zenawi, the contention between his party and some other opposition parties is not so much a matter of strategy of government rule as it is in variously envisioned form of the Ethiopian state that leaves the incumbent reluctant enough to abandon its ‘hard-won’ governmental power. We shouldn’t also forget people’s natural urge to seek change in government after having been under a single party rule for almost a quarter of a century that makes the ruling party less confident to contend against newly emerging parties.'], ['\xa0'], ['The survival factor'], ['\xa0'], ['Another stumbling block for making election a means of shifting governmental power among political parties seems to emanate from the long-standing tradition of maintaining an iron fist over key governmental institutions and major economic sectors by the ruling party and its affiliates. Obviously, this will make for the ruling party the prospect of leaving power a nightmare scenario.'], ['\xa0'], ['While for many rank and file members of the ruling party – probably owing to lack of employable skill – political position is not so much for mere ‘leisure’ of accomplishing political mission as it is a major means of earning a livelihood – not so easy to relinquish at all.'], ['\xa0'], ['Last but not least, the fear of possibly facing justice for some probable past misdeeds may also impel the ruling party officials to maintain the status quo ad infinitum.'], ['\xa0'], ['Thus, given all these intricate and difficult political circumstances which the country is currently facing, the prospect of undertaking somewhat genuinely free, fair and reasonably consensual election anytime soon looks bleak.'], ['\xa0'], ['This sordid state of affairs will therefore make it clear that it is high time that we stop fooling ourselves with keeping up the meaningless, ritualistic election every now and then. For this to happen, the incumbent ought to courageously cease operating under the tacit assumption of the ‘winner-takes-it-all’ politics and thereby accord due recognition to silently fermenting legitimate political concerns rather than belittling them as devilish nonsense. And this needs to be accompanied with working earnestly and in good faith–in some sense of urgency–towards undertaking an all-embracing, earnest and constructive political dialogue so as to address the problem for once and all with an eye at the long-term peace and prosperity of the whole nation at large.'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'April 2, 2015', 'Header': 'The alienation of intellect', 'news_paragraphs': [['\xa0'], ['Taye Negussie (PhD)'], ['Marx’s quite famous theory of the alienation of labor holds in the industrialized capitalist commodity production the laborer is alienated both from the product of his labor as well as the activity of labor itself. In the former, the commodity which labor produces is experienced by the laborer as an alien and independent entity over which he has no power of command at all. While in the latter, by virtue of being a wage laborer his labor itself becomes no longer his own.'], ['In the contemporaneous world, the aspiration to go industrialized looks not limited only to commodity production. It sets to pervade a great deal of human activities embracing as far afield as the intellectual sphere of science.'], ['The “industrialization of science”'], ['If we look back at the history of science, we see that science was borne during the renaissance period in Europe as a consequence of the intellectual struggle against the authority of dogmatic metaphysical principles and theological doctrines.'], ['Thus, questioning dogmatic knowledge was science’s modus operandi from the outset. However, contrary to its original spirit, now science itself seems to have evolved into a new dogmatic field of knowledge, ironically not much less dogmatic than the metaphysical and theological knowledge that it challenged in its initial phase.'], ['Apparently, the success and achievement of industrial production seem to have inspired the belief that the industrial model to be an ideal organizational model worthy of replicating across the board.'], ['In the world of science, the advent of the industrial mode of activity, so to speak, the “industrialization of science” could well be evinced in the operation of tightly structured scientific research method that guides and commands a great deal of current research undertaking.\nThe “blue-collar” scientist'], ['Subsequent to the industrialization of science, there has also come upon a shift in the task and orientation of once independently thinking scientist. Now, as obedient intellectual laborer of a scientific enterprise, the scientist’s intellectual duty involves largely in laboring with “facts” within a very confined intellectual territory, hence the “blue-collar” scientist.'], ['To be sure, while undertaking his research activity, the “blue-collar” scientist has to unquestionably accept all given assumptions, strictly follow the unrelenting preconceived research steps, and stick to only immediately perceptible “facts”.'], ['The renowned philosopher of science Thomas Kuhn calls the typical activity of the intellectual laborer a “puzzle-solving” exercise that aimed only at “agreeing” or “disagreeing” with the prevailing intellectual beliefs.'], ['To ensure the enforcement of its dogmatic rules and procedures, the industrialized science has ingeniously conceived a controlling mechanism known as “peer-review”. Despite the claim of neutrality and objective assessment attached to it, however the practical experience well demonstrates that like many other human institutions it is often marred by a good deal of coalition of interest, bickering, prejudices and close-mindedness that arise on disciplinary, professional, personal, ideological, organizational and on many more other grounds.'], ['Obviously, today’s highly exalted industrial mode in doing science might in some way signify a growing trend in distancing science from its original spirit of freewheeling imagination and rational and critical reflection in search of the ultimate truth. As a matter of fact now the preoccupation with many scientists is not so much in explaining why things exist as it is in merely describing how things operate. Of course, such objective can largely be met when science is organized along the industrial line.'], ['It goes without saying that working in the context of industrialized science the intellectual come to experience an alienation both from the activity of his intellect and its outcome. This happens as he wills to surrender his thought to the external authority of conventional scientific dogmas and leaves his mental outcome in a presumed store of “cumulated knowledge”, an alien and independent body over which he has no power of control. Thus, as the ‘alienation of labor’ is to the production industry so is the ‘alienation of intellect’ to the scientific industry.'], ['Demystifying the conventional scientific assumptions'], ['Underlying the organization of scientific research activities along the industrial line are the assumptions that science develops through “objective analysis” of “facts”, instead of “personal opinion”, and that knowledge gained in science accumulates as time goes by, building on work performed earlier.\nHowever, a closer scrutiny of these assumptions will reveal a great deal of unwarranted abstractions particularly as it pertains to the field of conventional social science. Consider the notion of “fact” presumably constituting the initial raw input to be processed by the scientific mill of “objective analysis”. Whether the subject of study be social, economic or psychological, it inevitably concerns, among others, people’s observation, knowledge, opinion, views, attitude, feeling, and impression among others which are clearly manifestations of the illusive human souls that significantly vary under different contexts and circumstances. Therefore, there exists no firm ground to assume these fleeting human characters as constant “facts” amenable to the shallow, quick survey method.'], ['Also witness here the common mistake of considering as “facts” only what currently exists. In doing so, one inexorably commits the mistake of taking “what exists” for “what ought to exist”, “fact” for “truth” or “appearance” for “essence”. Probably, it must be this function of conventional science that has made it too often the best candidate by many totalitarian systems to justify their autocratic rule.'], ['The other problematic assumption in the conventional science concerns the contrast between “objective analysis” vs. “personal opinion”. Historically the term “objective” was used by classical philosophers to signify the attainment of something close to ultimate truth through transcendental contemplation. However, in the present context it largely implies a condition whereby a researcher unconditionally submits himself to some presumed established knowledge, irrespective of its truthfulness; hence, doing otherwise risks the contempt of “personal opinion”.'], ['Thus, in this line of thinking what too often qualifies as “objective analysis” is rather a blind acceptance of some preexisting collective opinion at the expense of working with one’s own mind. In a way, this exemplifies what is here said to be the abdication of one’s mind to external authority that constitutes partially the alienation of intellect.'], ['With regard to the notion of “cumulative knowledge”, Thomas Kuhn in his 1962 controversial book, The Structure of Scientific Revolutions argues that the evolution of scientific theory, contrary to the conventional wisdom, does not necessarily emerge from straightforward accumulation of knowledge. He reasoned that in the history of science a greater proportion of worthy scientific discoveries were in fact the results of revolutionary thinking– revolutionary science – that contested and reversed the view of established knowledge. Witness the advent of Copernican Theory that revealed the rotation of the earth around the sun by turning upside down the preceding long-held Ptolemaic Theory which held the earth to be the center of universe.'], ['\xa0\nAs recently as 2013, Professor Robert Langer of MIT, in a piece to Project Syndicate, Going Against Conventional Wisdom, counted the personal ordeal and pain he and his colleagues had undergone in the course of undertaking medical researches which latter on led to the discovery of treatment for millions of people with different forms of cancer. In his account, not only their innovative ideas were rejected all along by the best scientists in their field but also claimed for the time their dearly held academic careers. This comes as no surprise; history well attests that innovative scientists have had to battle conventional wisdom; while some gave their life to their cause, some other lucky ones received highly esteemed rewards such as Nobel Prize years afterward, ironically for the same previously rejected research work.'], ['\xa0\nThe cause behind these dire conditions and paradoxes, to a degree, could well be attributed to the distressing state whereby those presumed to be critical thinking scientists otherwise surrender their intellect to the increasingly dogmatic conventional science. One possible consequence of this is evident in today’s shift of creativity from the university premise to the private firm.'], ['\xa0\nFor Marx, the alienation of laborer from his activity exemplifies an expropriation that touches the very essence of man. He argues that labor in its true form is a medium for man’s true self-fulfillment and full development of his potentialities. However, in the objectified form of production instead of developing his free physical and mental energies, the worker “mortifies his body” and “ruins his mind”.'], ['\xa0\nEven assuming Marx’s account of such grave consequences arising from the simple alienation of labor is remotely true, I just wonder what would it amount to when a person is alienated from his soul – the intellect.'], ['\xa0'], ['Ed’s note: The writer can be reached at tayesosa@yahoo.com'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}]
[{'Date': 'February 17, 2015', 'Header': '‘Old habits die hard’', 'news_paragraphs': [['Taye Negussie (PhD)'], ['\xa0'], ['Very few would doubt that the period between the late 1980’s and early 1990s was indeed one of the most remarkable periods in recent history of world political economy as it set the demise of the Eastern communist camp, thereby heralding presumably the end of the notorious Cold War.'], ['\xa0\nThe ensuing ideological mood in the wake of the tumultuous change that engulfed quite a significant part of the world by then was well echoed in Francis Fukuyama’s best seller but controversial book, ‘The End of History and the Last Man’ published in 1993.'], ['\xa0\nFrancis Fukuyama’s central argument was that with the demise of the contending communist political ideology and centralized planning economic system, the Western neo-liberal democracy and free-market economic system has proved itself to be the sole universal path towards a higher level of human civilization.'], ['\xa0\nThe extent to which this sentiment prevailed at the time could well be revealed by the fact that with very few exceptions nearly all formerly communist-oriented regimes went to enthusiastically embrace the Western neo-liberal democracy and free-market system as their official ideology.\nAlas, after some two decades down the road quite many of these countries seem set to slide back steadily to their authoritarian repressive past. In some cases, they do so by recycling a quazi-communist style authoritarian system – though flavored with a little bit of economic liberalism –that goes by the name ‘developmental statism’. This trend may be typified by Ethiopia’s recent move along that direction.'], ['\xa0\nProbably, this phenomenon might suggest – in line with quite familiar psychological insight–an instinctual resurrection of old communist mentality long buried in deep-consciousness of those politicians implicated with communist ideology; also, reminiscent of the adage ‘old habits die hard’.\nLet me briefly illustrate the circumstances and examine some of the possible factors that might have led these countries to relapse to their repressive past with some focus on Ethiopia under the ruling Ethiopian People Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF) taking its root as communist guerilla movement and Russia of Vladimir Putin, formerly a pivotal figure in the infamous Communist Soviet Union security apparatus, the KGB.'], ['\xa0\nHalf-hearted choice\nTo begin with, whether one would stay loyal to an earlier decision will all depend on the circumstances surrounding the decision making process and whether the decision was indeed made out of one’s full conviction.'], ['\xa0\nLooking back on the circumstances of the late 80’s and early 90’s in which those countries in transition embraced en mass the ideology of Western liberal political economic system, one would notice the fact that for many of them the decision to go democrat was not so much a decision made out of heart-felt conviction and commitment to democracy as it was to dance with the tune of the time for it was the only game in town. So, it’s not surprising to see a lot of foot-dragging in these countries on the issue of democracy in some latter years.'], ['\xa0\nAdd to this, the presence of some element of imposition in the introduction of democracy to these countries – as it was a pre-condition for them to qualify for badly needed financial and economic assistance – may, in my view, also have its own share in not taking democratic values and principles to heart.\nIn any way, whether the liberal democratic ideology was accepted heartily or not, each country then had to show a good amount of liberal human and democratic right provisions in their newly re-written constitutions.'], ['\xa0'], ['Failing to walk-the-talk\nIt goes without saying that once these countries have put those lofty democratic values and principles in their supreme legal document, then they are bound to face the daunting task of translating them into practice sooner or later.'], ['\xa0\nI think it is just at this point that we come to witness today’s much lamented and deplored gap between rhetoric and practice of democracy in many of these countries.'], ['\xa0\nAs a matter fact, the measure of true democracy lies not in the beautiful phrases and statements put in the constitution as it is in the presence and active functioning of genuinely impartial judiciary and electoral board, a disciplined police, security, defense and a vibrant independent media among others.'], ['\xa0\nYet, on that account, the track record with many countries transited to democracy at the end of the Cold War is deeply disappointing, if not disturbing. Consider the rather frequent accusations labeled against the Ethiopian and Russian governments by both domestic and international human and democratic right advocacy and monitory agencies concerning their governments’ absolute control over public media, restriction and intimidation of free private media, use of law and law enforcement bodies against political opponents, restriction of free assembly and peaceful demonstration, and manipulation of elections to extend the rule of the regime in power and what have you.'], ['\xa0\nStill worse, as of late even those lofty democratic tenets and principles well placed in their constitutions are now being unabashedly overridden by derivative laws and regulations often with the excuse of ‘fighting terrorism’– apparently the political fad of the time. Witness the recent deeply controversial Ethiopian anti-terrorism law, press law, societies and charities law.'], ['\xa0\nIn this connection, this magazine, in its January editorial (Vol.5 No.46. Jan. 2015), entitled ‘Human Rights Day in Ethiopia: Make it count please’ passionately illustrated why Ethiopia’s 20 year constitution is “failing the very people it is supposed to protect.”'], ['\xa0'], ['Un-civic democracy\nMany social scientists and political commentators believe that democracy is not so much a periodical election event as it is a total way of life. After all, democracy as a ‘rule of people’ based on choices presupposes possession of certain set of civic virtues and capabilities on the part of the people that would enable them to embrace and nurture a democratic culture.'], ['\xa0\nAccording to the noted civil society scholar Edward Shills, these civic virtues include, among others, trust, tolerance and cooperation that moderate particular, individual or parochial interests and give precedence to common good.'], ['\xa0\nAs a thumb of rule, people learn these civic virtues and acquire the tradition of commitment for the cause of freedom, justice and equality only when they are allowed to organize and operate in their own truly independent and autonomous civil society organizations.'], ['\xa0\nSadly, the current state of civil society in the countries under discussion seems extremely deplorable for there exists hardly any space for civil societies to operate on the political landscape. Apparently, operating within the framework of lingering communist mentality, the governments in many of these countries are literally addicted to co-opting and manipulating existing civil societies, not least recreating their own puppet ones. Hence, the existing so-called civic organizations are occupied not so much in enhancing the democratic consciousness and capabilities of members as that of serving as channel to deliver the policies and directives of the ruling regimes.'], ['\xa0\nNeedless to say, where vibrant civil societies and genuinely impartial government organs are seriously lacking, it comes as no surprise that abuse of the rule of law, gross violation of human rights, meaningless periodical elections, unparalleled dominance and control of the ruling party on all aspects of people’s life prevail unhindered – realities not in short supply in the countries discussed above.'], ['\xa0\nSo, in the face of all these, it would be much tempting to conclude – as against Francis Fukuyama’s prophesy of ‘the end of history’– what the end of the Cold war has indeed bestowed on citizens of these countries is rather a continuation of undemocratic rule albeit in somewhat changed form and style. Of course, there is no denying that in the case of Ethiopia like most others, it only involves a change in the face of rulers.'], ['\xa0'], ['Ed’s note: The writer can be reached at tayesosa@yahoo.com'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'January 5, 2015', 'Header': 'The toll of “Aristocratic Spirit” in academia', 'news_paragraphs': [['Taye Negussie (PhD)\nPlato’s Academia, founded around 300 B.C in classical Greek, is widely thought to be the precursor of the modern University System. Plato’s motif in establishing a residential educational center by then was reportedly his conviction that the virtuous path to truth is a persistent rational deliberation and exchange of ideas among those who feel free and equal amongst themselves.'], ['Apparently, over time Plato’s idea has turned out to form the basis of today’s much celebrated notion of autonomous and independent academic institution, albeit, whose practicality has greatly diverged among nations due to mainly ideological and political reasons.'], ['Apart from this practical variation, yet there also appears an underlying common misconception regarding the very notion of academic autonomy and independence both within and outside of the academic community; the tendency to consider it as a mere institutional prerogative only to shield academic institutions from unwarranted exogenous mingling in their academic and administrative affairs.'], ['Subsequently, this has led to the turning of blind-eyes to internal irrational and authoritarian tendencies and practices current within the academic institutions themselves.'], ['Evidently, since long many academics have witnessed through their own lived-experience the gruesome realities of deeply conservative and authoritarian mode of thought and behavior. Such behavior is operating on the feudal principle of honor, dignity and hierarchical lord-vassal relationships permeating some academic institutions across the world in a manner akin to that of aristocratic authority; hence the “aristocratic spirit’’.'], ['More specifically, this seemingly aristocratic style of organization may manifest itself in greatly varied forms and manners as expressed in overt or covert actions and behaviors of some individual or groups of academics in the course of carrying out the business of an academic institution, particularly at the lower tier.'], ['The case of ‘paternalism’'], ['To be sure, probably owing to their relatively longer duration of attachment, some academics would usually be observed tending to act out, so to speak, the role of ‘patron’ of the institution – ‘only I know what is best for the institution’.'], ['Clearly, inspired by this self-made image, they more often than not attempt to portray themselves as the ‘person-embodiment’ of all the institution’s rules, regulations and ambitions that would readily entitle them both the moral right and the intellectual competency to direct and shape the institution solely in the image of their own liking.'], ['In order to realize their dominating and controlling ambitions, they often opt to a range of well- improvised course of actions and practices. To mention but a few: striving to acquire some strategic decision making positions by themselves and/or their confidants; making ‘kings’ and rules (even including extra-legalistic ones) behind the scene; working hard for tradition and established practices, instead of rational deliberations, to prevail as the main principle of decision making; monopolizing course offerings and other academic and administrative activities along with their close associates, and resisting any new initiative in the working of the institution that they suspect might disrupt the status quo.'], ['In this regard, factional networking, intense lobbying, backdoor conspiratorial dealings, ‘herd-thinking’– lining behind their back those innocent but uncritical staff – are but some of the key tools they invariably put into use for influencing and directing decisions and thereby turning their repressive wishes come true.'], ['Meanwhile, those who rightfully dissent against these irrational and authoritarian activities and practices would soon be subjected to all sorts of undeserved labeling, backbiting, ridiculing, isolation and persistent factional bulling.'], ['The “camel spirit” at play'], ['A common tale has it that camels never go near the mountain. They have chosen to live in the desert because in the desert they are the walking mountains, but near the mountains they will look like ants, and that hurts.'], ['Likewise, those operating with the aristocratic mentality in academia and are accustomed to confining themselves in their den of enclosed ‘comfort-zone’ firmly uphold obstinate close-door approach towards the issue of employing especially new senior staff. This is apparently with the view to maintain their unrivalled dominance in the affair of the institution ad infinitum.'], ['Probably, at the root of this closed-door policy lies the pervasive stereotypic ‘insider-outsider’ profiling of staff on the basis of their recruitment into the institution. The ‘insider’ category implicitly represents those staff who have joined the institution directly upon completion of their education, and are supposed to pass through the quasi-official norm of rigorous coaching and grooming. This is done in the myth and prejudices of the ‘masters’ ostensibly with the purpose of duplicating them into their own replicas.'], ['Whereas, in the ‘outsider’ category we find mainly those who have joined the institution after working for a while in some other institutions and are often looked upon with suspicion for they are suspected not to have sufficiently been remolded.'], ['In this aristocratic tradition, everyone is tacitly presumed to hold a specific prescribed position in the underground hierarchical arrangement.Any endeavoring staff wishing to achieve his own life aspiration with little regard to this archaic arrangement is bound to have some hard time.'], ['In similar vein, here each and every action of ‘non-conformist’ staff is viewed with deep suspicion and mistrust. Even when one is commanding a measure of public trust, acceptance, and respect owing to dedication and commitment to duty, he will be viewed suspiciously. One’s engagement in persistent pursuit of truth, adopting a simplistic, fair-minded and humanistic mode of life – which is, under normal circumstances, by far the more potent form of power than any formal position – would be eventually liable for unfounded accusation of leniency in official duty, which clearly depicts the extent of jealousy and hostility current in that tradition.'], ['Hardened intellectual conservatism'], ['As we may all know what has set a scientific knowledge apart from other forms of knowledge –at least theoretically – is the fact that it is an open and ever evolving knowledge-seeking endeavor. A scientific knowledge never asserts any fixed and conclusive solution to persistent human enquiry.'], ['Nevertheless, in the academic context under discussion all seemingly conventional theoretical perspectives and methodologies in a certain field invariably receive almost a status of “absolute truth” and are upheld in the like of a dogmatic belief. Thus single-handedly guiding all curriculum development, research undertaking and knowledge dissemination endeavor. It also shows a sheer disregard to the unconventional and critical ones along with all their potential intellectual and practical merits.'], ['From the foregoing account one may discern the immense injustices and the subsequent adverse public consequences – denying individuals the freedom of thought, compromising intellectual autonomy and integrity, stifling creativity, restricting intellectual and experiential diversity, and constraining the circulation of novel knowledge. This, in many ways, is a result from the reign of an authoritarian “aristocratic spirit” as is the case in the conduct of some academic institutions.'], ['Despite all this bleak assessment, however, I am optimistic that it is still possible to address the challenges by helping, to the extent possible, for the nurturing and flourishing of an open-minded, just, compassionate, transparent, and progressive internal governance in those academic institutions plagued by the problem in line with the spirit of the classical Plato’s Academia.'], ['Let me wind up this piece by way of reminding all of us the profound insight in the maxim: “It is not necessary that we should all think exactly alike, but we should all think.”'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'January 2, 2015', 'Header': 'Measuring the immeasurable: The fallacies of quantifying “Human Development”', 'news_paragraphs': [['Taye Negussie(PhD)'], ['With the view to address the weakness of the traditional economic oriented Gross Domestic Product (GDP) measurement that glossed over the human aspect of development, the United Nation Development Program (UNDP) decided to release every year since 1990 an annual report on the state of human development for each member state – the Human Development Index (HDI).'], ['\xa0'], ['\nThe first Human Development Report, thus, defined “human development” as “the process of increasing people’s choices”. The report argued that the most critical choices that ever haunt people were: to lead a long life, to be knowledgeable and to have access to income for a decent living. Accordingly, the report proposed the aggregate index of life expectancy, educational attainment, and adjusted per capita income to constitute the Human Development Index (HDI) of a nation or a group of population.\nThough by now the UNDP’s annual HDI report appears to command a measure of recognition, like other critiques I feel despite its relative improvement over the GDP measurement, the HDI measurement by itself suffers from a number of conceptual ambiguities and logical fallacies.'], ['\xa0'], ['The folly of quantification'], ['For starters, consider the definition accorded to “human development” as “the process of increasing people’s choices”. What does this definition imply? Does the said “human development” somewhat signify the level of improvement registered in that uniquely human quality of people’s life?'], ['\xa0'], ['It goes without saying that any serious effort to measure “human development” first and foremost must start with somewhat clearer conception of “human nature”. In the absence of this, it would be hardly possible to imagine what the object of measurement might be. Since the HDI report never explicitly states the assumption of “human nature”, we need to decipher the implicit assumption by carefully examining its view of “human development”.'], ['\xa0'], ['When one defines “human development” as the process of widening “people’s choices”, then, it becomes clear that the matter under consideration is some object out there that people badly seek to acquire.'], ['\xa0'], ['To the extent that we speak of the acquisition of object out there, then the conception of “human development” should be something that most likely concerns human’s physical existence. Here, I am well aware that some astute readers may doubt this assertion for the simple fact that there is a mention of education in the portfolio of HDI Index. No worry! I would try to address that concern in the next section.'], ['\xa0'], ['Now, if we agree that the HDI’s pivotal concern is that of people’s physical or body existence, then, it follows that its assumption of “human nature” must draw on that positivistic-empiricist perspective which champions the view that humans are essentially body-beings primarily programmed to care for their body comfort and pleasure. And as such, the positivistic-empiricist view places humans on almost similar plane with other animals.'], ['\xa0'], ['Meanwhile, against this positivist-empiricist view stands the opposing philosophical-spiritual perspective which accords due recognition to the uniqueness of human nature as constituting of both soul/spiritual and body-being. According to this line of thought, with the proper nurturing and development of the soul/spiritual component – the inner-being – it is quite possible for humans to discipline and rule over their animalistic body-being.'], ['\xa0'], ['Thus, in my view, if there needs to be any genuine attempt to estimate a semblance of “human development”, then it necessarily ought to rest on a reasonable consideration of this inner-dimension of human life for it is the pivotal element that sets humans apart from other animals. Unfortunately, it appears that aspect of human life is quite far removed from being an object of quantifiable measurement at least in the face of the current level of knowledge we have attained. So, this makes the validity and reliability of HDI devise highly improbable to serve as a measurement of “human development” in the sense of implying the level of maturity attained in that uniquely human quality.'], ['\xa0'], ['Dubious proximate indicators'], ['The plausibility of HDI measurement also becomes more suspect when one looks at how the proposed proximate indicators relate to the issue of “human development. Take for instance, the variable of longevity as determined by the average life-span of a given group of people. Apparently, the rationale for choosing longevity as one of the indices of “human development” is the assumption that longer life span may imply “freedom” from illness.'], ['\xa0'], ['The flaws of this assumption can be discerned in many ways. The first and most important being that of its inexcusable reduction of the noble and complex concept of human freedom to mere ease from illness. Given the fact that an ease from illness can as well be secured by non-human animals, as is so often the case, so what does it make that sort of “freedom” characteristically a human achievement, and thereby a “human development”?'], ['\xa0'], ['Secondly, is an attainment of longer-age necessarily an indicative of a contented life and a mark of advancement? As our commonsense knowledge tells us, not really so! This brings to mind the maxim, “What matters is not how long you live but how well you live”. Furthermore, given the well-known fact of relatively longer age lived by those even isolated communities living in some inaccessible mountainous areas around the world, it would not be fair to attribute longevity solely to scientific advancement.\nThirdly, is the convention of attaching more value to physical existence than natural physical perishing indeed based on a clear and sound understanding of the latter? And, how long can we really extend our physical existence? Is that extension as such a significant matter in the eyes of the larger cosmic order? Isn’t it logical to presume in so much as there exists a purpose in physical existence, there, too, must be a purpose in its opposite natural physical perishing?\nStill, the most surprising part in UNDP’s discourse of “human development” is the proposition of formal ‘educational attainment’ as a proxy indicator of ‘knowledge’. Logically speaking, this invokes the questions: What do we mean by knowledge? Is formal educational attainment of any significance to gauge one’s endowment of true knowledge?'], ['\xa0'], ['Of course, the answers to these questions all depend on our definition of knowledge which unfortunately varies considerably on the basis of philosophical variation. But, I presume many would agree with the simplest definition of knowledge as a process of attaining enlightenment or clear understanding of one’s true-self and one’s environment.'], ['Even in light of this simplistic definition, we find formal education to be far less reliable indicator as to show the level of endowment of knowledge. Of course, it may help to a degree to determine one’s official qualification for a certain task or purpose.'], ['\xa0'], ['Reliance on formal education as a measure of knowledge becomes ever more elusive especially when one thinks of knowledge in the sense of possessing a measure of wisdom to engage into the pursuant of truth and thereby contribute one’s share to the larger family of humanity. This is more so, given the pervasiveness of today’s highly specialized and skill-oriented behavioral education.'], ['\xa0'], ['By the same token, the notion of adjusted per capita income as a proximate indicator of a decent standard of living implies not so much a person’s contentment and satisfaction in life as maintenance of physical existence.'], ['In short, all the conceptual ambiguities and logical flaws rather partially shown above would make UNDP’s annual HDI report highly questionable. Admittedly, the problem of representing a phenomenon by its form or appearance rather than by its essence is not unique to HDI measurement; it is rather a problem commonly shared by many of the so-called scientific devices. Evidently, the root of this problem, as the renowned critical social scientist Herbert Marcuse argues, mainly emanates from the very philosophy of science which erroneously presumes the possibility of knowing the whole even with the exclusion of the essence of its constituting parts.'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'November 28, 2014', 'Header': 'Politicking alone', 'news_paragraphs': [['Taye Negussie (PhD)'], ['As of late we are witnessing the ruling Ethiopian People Revolutionary Democratic Party (EPRDF) busily engag¬ing itself in undertaking a relentless mass “training” cam¬paign (often enforced) and targeting different segments of the population – from bus conductors to university stu¬dents and professors.'], ['While the official version from the government side puts the purpose as an attempt to familiarize the current gov¬ernment policies and programs and the need to receive public feedback, the sincerity of such claim becomes highly suspect on many grounds.'], ['First, the rationale of familiarizing and receiving pub¬lic feedback at a time when the government’s five year Growth and Transformation Plan (GTP) is nearing its fi¬nal implementation phase is no strong a case to convince a fairly critical observer. Second, a look at the timing (less than a year to the next general election), the nature and essence of the “training” scheme makes the official version a weak excuse.'], ['Whereas some critics speak of the matter as a political campaigning of the ruling party aiming at the upcoming national election or a manipulative ploy to destruct peo¬ple from the distressing daily living realities, in my view it goes way further than that; it signals a march from a promised “political pluralism”– accompanied by a promis¬ing beginning during the earlier phase of the EPRDF re¬gime – towards, sadly, a single party dominant rule and an outright totalitarian politics. And this is more so in the face of recent disturbing trends.'], ['While a detailed account of the structure and organiza¬tion of the “training” scheme is out of the scope of this short piece, a brief overview of the explicit and implicit assumptions of the overall core arguments in the narra¬tives of the reading materials presented for the “training” is in order.'], ['Totalizing ideology'], ['When viewed from a pedagogical point of view, the “training” initiative can well be considered as a systemati¬cally designed ideological indoctrination scheme with the purpose of shaping people to think and behave in the logic and perspective of the ruling EPRDF.'], ['Put specifically, the core argument of many of the narra¬tives articulated in the “training” documents point towards entitling the ruling EPRDF a monopoly on truth and sub¬sequently the moral certitude and justification with which to judge, qualify or disqualify any course of political action other than its own. If anything, this affirms its unrivaled ascendance to a de facto single party rule – sending asunder the constitutionally sanctioned multi-party system.\nIn this connection, a troubling narrative was the gross condemnation of the neo-liberal political thinking. Albeit tremendous variations in upholding the various dimen¬sions of neo-liberal philosophy by various governments, its basic ideals of freedom of thought, association, expres-sion, pluralistic views and other democratic values can never be contested. Historically, it was only those openly totalitarian regimes who have dared to do so. The irony in the case of Ethiopia is that all these political values and ideals are unequivocally stated in its constitution as invio¬lable human and democratic rights.'], ['The tacit message of the reading on the “Ethiopian re¬naissance”– a belatedly rolled up political strategy seem¬ingly to appease sympathizers of the larger Ethiopian na¬tional cause – also shows that since the ‘omniscient’ and ‘omnipotent’ EPRDF has fully and effectively settled all political scores – past or present – in so much as to leave no room for any contention, what now remains for the rest of the Ethiopian peoples is only to fully embrace and work diligently towards realizing its ‘brilliantly’ conceived plan of putting Ethiopia back to its rightful glorious his¬toric past. Thus, the people of Ethiopia need to discipline and organize themselves under the all-embracing rule of EPRDF.'], ['Pedagogical tricks'], ['Obviously, devious messages like this one can only be delivered to trainees via subtle pedagogical techniques ca¬pable of rendering psychological and emotional manipula¬tion. In this sense, examination of the reading materials and administration of the “training” process would reveal the deployment of the following pedagogical techniques.'], ['Using generic title: Some of the reading materials were accorded a generic title. A case in point is the text entitled,\n“The Renaissance and the Struggle of the Ethiopian Peoples.” As it stands, this form of titling portrays the subject as if it was an ‘incontestable matter of universal fact’. Thus, with this imagination the attendant is highly likely to automatically identify himself with the subject and therefore concentrate only on details without giving a second-thought about the premise and assumption of the issue.'], ['Chaining people by their ‘past’: Under the reading dealing with Ethiopian history, we find a categorization of the Ethiopian peo¬ples into two mutually exclusive groups: the category of the previously ‘abused and victimized’ population groups and their counterpart, the ‘victor and sinning’ group. With such characterization, no liv¬ing citizen can escape from associating himself to either of these two categories. The trick here lies in chaining both the al¬leged ‘victims’ and ‘victors’ by the sense of retribution and guilt so as to readily sub¬mit themselves to the power that be –the self-proclaimed “savior”.'], ['Idolizing economic growth: By holding the notion of developmental state high, this scheme aimed at indoctrinating the trainees with the idea that a rapid and higher economic growth necessarily in¬volves tougher governance which is worth scarifying for. Add to this, the continuous hammering with the rhetoric of two-digit economic growth and the tantalizing eco-nomic plans coupled with field visit of some show-off projects. It is all aimed at limiting the trainees to think only about the material dimensions of development so that they will never be able to consider the rather more important dimensions of enhancing human freedom, social justice, equality of opportunities, and participa¬tory and just governance.'], ['Dogmatizing the constitution: The far too familiar knowledge by many is the allega¬tions of democratic and human rights vio¬lations by the incumbent from both domes¬tic as well as international human right activists. Although this by itself merits defense by showing how the provisions of the constitution are being implemented, what the presenters did was yet to stick to a dogmatic reading of the constitution, surprisingly after more than two decades of its enactment; hence turning it into a dogmatic rather than a working document.'], ['Taking the last word: Despite the fairly open and candid discussion seen in many sessions, the last word always went to the hand-picked discussant that gave him/her the latitude to respond in the manner that suits to the interest of the party he/she represents.'], ['That said, apparently the whole premise and methodology of the “training” exer¬cise appears to have been drawn on the behavioral educationalist’s model of learn¬ing, which presumes that with repetitive and continuous stuffing of information, it is possible to shape the thinking and be-havior of learners in certain desired direc¬tion.'], ['Yet, this assumption has been highly contested and disputed by liberal educa¬tionalists who believe that the last free¬dom a person could have is the freedom of thought or consciousness that no ex¬ternal force will be able to violate. There¬fore, they firmly hold that for one really to learn, s/he essentially needs to have some fiery inner motivation, interest in the sub¬ject and most importantly sound faith and confidence in the integrity of the institu¬tion in charge, without which it becomes hardly possible to influence the thought and behavior of learners no matter how hard a training s/he is subjected to. And, indisputably this has indeed been well proven true as was the case at the end of the “training” scheme under discussion.'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'November 21, 2014', 'Header': 'The power of “the unexpected small touches”: Leveraging ‘soft skills’ for business success', 'news_paragraphs': [['Taye Negussie (PhD)'], ['“….I could talk forever about the swimming pool, fantastic views, and the morning breakfast. Honestly, though I would expect those things given the price I was paying, what will bring me back to the resort was the impression ‘the unexpected small touches’ left on me.”'], ['This was an excerpt from a student’s market observation term paper report entitled ‘An Overview of My stay at Adama Executive Hotel,’ submitted in partial fulfillment for my economic sociology course at Addis Abeba University.*'], ['As I see it, the above seemingly ordinary phrase –“the unexpected small touches”– invoked by the student as a force to win the hotel her customer loyalty, would rather speak volumes about the currently changing business environment: the newly emerging mode of business organization and management and the accompanying set of skills and competencies required thereof.'], ['In the conventional ‘economic-efficiency and technological-rationally’ business model a greater emphasis was placed on how a worker’s body could make the most mechanically efficient moves with a view to attain maximum productivity and thereby profitability.'], ['To this effect, business organizations often had to be framed in a quasi-military type system with a rigid, hierarchical bureaucratic organization operating under a pre-determined, strictly regulated, standardized and uniform working rules and procedures.'], ['In such organizational framework, the most essential skills needed– aside from the manual work – used to be one’s intellectual and technical competencies.'], ['It goes without saying that such a rigid organizational arrangement engenders a robot-like mode of behavior and thought that deprives employees the freedom to display originality and spontaneity and all the creative aspects of human nature – hence, the notorious rational, impersonal, and formal behavior utterly insensible to specific people’s needs and preferences.\nThe new challenges and the changing yardstick'], ['Well, the above mode of business organization and management might have well served the purpose of mass production and services in a relatively less competitive business environment. However, in today’s globalized world and cut-throat competitive business environment it carries less promise than ever before.'], ['Now, businesses essentially need to ensure their survival and niche in their respective sector by engaging themselves in what economists call rendering value-added products and services. In its crudest sense, this may mean that productive and service-rendering business entities must turn their attention to customer-oriented products and services that may well take into account customers’ specific physical, psychological, social and cultural needs and preferences.'], ['Definitely, offering such services and products requires quite a different and new arrangement of business organization and management and the corresponding new set of competencies and skills on the part of the organization’s staff and personnel.'], ['The emerging organizational mode'], ['As opposed to the traditional rather rigid and conservative organizational prototypes, now the most valued and highly cherished organizational variety seems to be a flexible and a learning entity capable of quickly adjusting itself to the continuously changing business environment.'], ['While in the ‘good’ old days, industries and businesses committed themselves only to their own selfish profit motive with little interest to the larger environmental and social concerns, albeit some variation across level of economic-development and commitment of governments, now every business entity is required to bestow some reasonable attention to these rather important public issues.'], ['In this regard the recently coined notion of environmental and social accountability is set to underpin the value and operational framework that orient legislative and policy makers, government executive organs, business communities, community groups and civic organizations in their endeavor to create socially and environmentally sound industrial and business activities.'], ['The case for ‘soft-skills’'], ['Unsurprisingly, the newly evolving industrial and business environment has tended to demand a radically new set of skill and competencies which in earlier times were largely held in contempt–hence dubbed ‘soft skills’.'], ['The economic significance of this otherwise known as ‘soft skills’ was brought about into the debate for the first time by the renowned American Scholar David McCleland in his 1973 paper “Testing for Competence rather than Intelligence”, in which he argued that the traditional intellectual capabilities did not predict the success of people in their job. Subsequently, he proposed that a set of specific competencies including ‘empathy’, ‘self-discipline’, and ‘initiative’ to serve as reliable predictors of success.'], ['Latter on in 1998, in his bestselling book “Working with Emotional Intelligence”, psychologist Daniel Goleman drawing on McCleland’s insights identified ‘emotional intelligence’ that comprises ‘self-mastery’ – initiative, trustworthiness, self-confidence and achievement drive, and ‘relationship skills’ – empathy, social awareness, leveraging diversity, team capabilities and leadership, as the most important trait that distinguishes most successful people in their private or work life.'], ['In reflecting on the current changing business circumstances, Goleman argues that, “The rules for work are changing. Now we are being judged by a new yardstick: not just by how smart we are, or by our training and experience, but also by how well we handle ourselves and each other –our emotional intelligence.”'], ['Goleman substantiates his argument by quoting a senior university official from the Harvard Business School, “As business changes, so do traits needed to excel. New challenges demand new talents.” According to this official the competencies that the Harvard Business School is now looking for in those who apply comprise “empathy, perspective taking, rapport and cooperation.”'], ['Thus, based on his own and many other recent research findings Goleman joins McCleland in disputing what is known as the ‘IQ mystique’: the false but widely embraced notion that attributes success to intellect alone.'], ['All in all, the consistent finding that has emerged from a substantial number of research undertakings in the field well points out to the fact that intellectual and technical capabilities take only second position to ‘emotional intelligence’ in determining outstanding business performance.'], ['Apparently, what my student considered as “the unexpected small touches” by the hotel staff include rather than just handing over room keys to guests, first inviting them to make a visit to the property of the hotel and then escorting them to their respective hotel room; paying extraordinary attention to guests’ children; aside from the formal good morning and pleasant smiles, engaging with guests in a heart-felt interaction at each encounter; while meeting in the hotel hallways or outside, going out of their way to purposely step aside and create a path for guests, were truly humbling humane gesture, not merely “being nice”. That could only be acted out by people endowed with some emotional and social competencies.'], ['From the foregoing arguments we gather that what is often relegated as ‘soft skills’, quite to the contrary, is indeed indispensable emotional and social capabilities – in fact far more than that of mere intellectual and technical competencies – that have proven to be the key ingredient for individual as well as business success across the board.\nThe writer is can be reached at tayesosa@yahoo.com'], ['* The writers would like to acknowledge student Sara Abdu’s invaluable contribution to this piece'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}]
[{'Date': 'August 25, 2014', 'Header': 'The scramble for legitimacy', 'news_paragraphs': [['Taye Negussie (PhD)'], ['Ever since its assumption of power in 1991, the current ruling Ethiopian Peoples’ Democratic Front (EPRDF) has been persistently coining varied rhetoric and discourses apparently with the view to validate and sustain its unremittingly single-handed reign ad infinitum. And, these rhetoric and discourses come in different forms and guises.'], ['‘Liberator and guardian’ of the state'], ['From the outset, the EPRDF regime proclaimed itself as the sole ‘liberator’ of those formerly much neglected and alienated ‘nation, nationalities and people’. The 1995 Ethiopian constitution–the brain-child of the front–was often invoked as an epic that marked the said ‘liberation’.'], ['The EPRDF regime has then basked in self-made image that this ‘liberation’ would only sustain in so far as it stays in power, and without it being in the ‘guardian’ position of a ruler, the newly crafted Ethiopian state is doomed to disintegrate for good.'], ['Hence, when the front occasionally faces relatively stronger challenges from some opposition groups, it tends to accuse them of being either reactionary elements bent on reviving the old repressive system or subversive forces that threaten the integrity of the state. Then, each and every move of the dissenting groups would be criminalized as an attempt to overthrow the ‘constitutional order’.'], ['Then on-negotiable stance of the regime concerning matters of political power can be easily observed while implicitly or explicitly conveying the message–in desperate circumstances such as during the infamous 2005 election–that its victory was not an easy victory that one would simply surrender for it was won at the sacrifice of the precious life of thousands of its heroes and heroines–as if it was an insurance for their losses.'], ['The contest against ‘the dead’'], ['The ongoing vigorous endeavor by the regime in constructing monuments of alleged ‘victories’ in some regions appears to be among the numerous attempts it has contrived to magnify the ‘sins’ of past regimes and thereby entrench its ‘liberator’ image amongst the population.'], ['Moreover, a persistent claim of achievements in almost every arena of life also seems to be in line of the common strategies that EPRDF employs to vindicate its totalitarian rule. The euphemism ‘YeGinbot 20 Frewoch’, which literally means the ‘outcome of May 28th’(its victory day against the Dergue regime), is invoked to demonstrate the superiority of EPRDF regime over the long dead ones.'], ['The fallacy in this claim is quite evident in that, for one thing, it entirely overlooks the inherent natural law of evolution of phenomena into a better and higher state; for the other, the mistaken belief that everything which has coincidently happened during the EPRDF’s reign–say the worldwide development in information technology and the subsequent socio-economic changes–must necessarily be the outcome of EPRDF’s ‘prudent’ policies.'], ['Politicization of the economy'], ['The insistent claim of fast and double-digit economic growth is definitely yet again one more strategy to justify the hitherto uncontested grip of power by EPRDF \xa0 and its will to continue with the status quo as rationalized by the lately coined ideological rhetoric of ‘developmental statism’.'], ['The dominant role of party-affiliated mega business empires in the economy, the discourse of the growth and transformation plan, the strategies of associational businesses and micro enterprises, the enhanced role of the military in the economic arena, among others, well testify the ever increasing politicization of the economy so as to assist with the continuity of EPRDF’s hegemonic rule.'], ['The politicization of the economy is also quite vivid in the relentless media propaganda about ‘development’, an exaggerated publicizing of some mega-projects like the ‘Millennium Dam’, the occasional talks about the necessity of EPRDF being in power in order to bring the already started infrastructural projects to full completion and\xa0 a trend whereby the commencement and completion of infrastructural construction activities are systematically made to coincide with the unfolding of some major political events, say when election is around the corner.'], ['\xa0Sustaining ‘Meles’s legacy’'], ['The unexpected and sudden passing of EPRDF’s legendary leader, Meles Zenawi, two years ago clearly sent a shock wave ranging from the rank and file members to its top leaders. The uncharacteristically too long mourning period – presumably to come to terms with the grave shock – was also used to thwart an imagined political crisis owing to the departing of the ‘brain’ of the party.'], ['The subsequent bombardment with the slogan of ‘sustaining Meles’s legacy’, the establishment of ‘Meles’s Foundation’ and the renaming of innumerable parks and public institutions after him are but to further sustain the hegemonic political and socio-economic framework.'], ['All being said, I feel a brief look at Weber’s insight on legitimacy may help us better appraise the strategies employed by EPRDF to justify and validate its unparalleled dominance in the current power structure.'], ['According to Max Weber, there are two principal sources of state legitimacy: citizens’ expectation of specific external effects resulting from the regime’s actions–‘interest-motive’; and an emotional belief of citizens in the regime as an expression of ethical, esthetic, or any other deeply-held human values–‘value-rational’.'], ['At the core of the ‘interest-motive’ legitimacy is the presumption of egoistic human nature as typified in the ‘utilitarian principle’ of the classical English Political philosopher–Thomas Hobbes. Hobbes held that people are mainly motivated by ‘pleasure-seeking’ and ‘pain-avoidance’. He proposed that all human actions are caused by material phenomena–meaning humans are inherently materialist. Evidently, this ‘animal-person’ paradigm views humans as fearful and greedy ‘body-beings’–as opposed to ‘spiritual beings’–who can easily be motivated, controlled or manipulated by externally imposed physical or psychological tools.'], ['Here it is not hard to see EPRDF’s manipulative ideological rhetoric, Hippocratic and opportunistic politics, and materialistic-oriented discourses very much fitting into Weber’s ‘interest-motive’ legitimacy theory.'], ['But, no matter how much external force one exercises, there is always a room for choosing an internal response inherent in human nature. As the imminent leadership theorist Stephen R. Covey has convincingly stated, “human beings are not things needing to be motivated and controlled; depending on how they are treated, people can make a choice ranging from rebel, malicious obedience, willing compliance, cheerful cooperation, heartfelt commitment, to creative excitement.”'], ['Thus, without doubt, the most viable form of government that one should ever look forward to is one that is human-centric; one that draws on Weber’s ‘value-rational’ legitimacy and that accords greater value to human life and dignity, individual and collective rights, freedom and happiness. As the saying goes, “The best government is the one that governs the least.”'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'August 18, 2014', 'Header': 'Two Tales, or One?: On Ethiopia’s Federalism and South Africa’s Apartheid', 'news_paragraphs': [['By Tsegaye R Ararssa*'], ['What is the story of the Ethiopian federal experiment? What stories does it tell? And what stories can be told about it? Feeding from and into the ever polarized and polarizing ‘debate’ on Ethiopia’s politics, Dr Taye Negussie recently argued that the Ethiopian federal arrangement is synonymous with apartheid’s ‘racial federation’. In a similar vein, Dr Asfawossen Asrate also remarked that “ethnic federalism amounts to nothing but apartheid.”[i] In this piece, I seek to explore the tales the Ethiopian federal experiment tells (and masks) with a view to shedding light on whether, by juxtaposing the two systems, there emerges a tale of two federations or two tales of two differently unjust governance systems. '], ['In what follows, I will first offer a sketchy ‘description’ of the federation in context. I will then discuss what to look for in a federal system as its fundamental features. I do this in order to determine whether the tale is of two federations in the strict sense. Next, I will make an excursion into why, in spite of its deficiencies and the injustices it masks, Ethiopia’s federation is not the same as apartheid. Lastly, I submit the claim that while the Ethiopian state practice can be likened to apartheid on many other grounds, its adoption of federalism won’t be one of these grounds. Throughout this piece, I argue that the story of apartheid and the story of the Ethiopian federal experiment form two stories, two different tales, of repressive governance systems, not one. For the story of apartheid is not a story of a federation.'], ['I also argue that the story of the Ethiopian federation is a story, for now, of ‘an unfortunate means to a legitimate end.’ It is unfortunate because it is heavily contested and unnecessarily so.[ii] Its end is legitimate because it aims at restructuring the state on a morally just set of premises.[iii] In the longue duree of Ethiopian history, it can be told as a story of the first steps in the unbreakable quest for freedom from the bondage of an ethnicized/racialized hierarchy imposed by the Abyssinian Empire on the ‘other’ peoples of Ethiopia. It is a story of a relentless pursuit of ethno-cultural justice by (subaltern) folks who took a stride towards emancipation through self-determination. It is a story of devising an alternative model of ‘nation-and state-building’. Owing to the current ‘authoritarian constitutional rule’ that cunningly deploys law to mask the repression, co-optation, and manipulation of legitimate national aspirations (thereby perpetuating pre-existing injustice), federalism has not delivered the promised emancipation. In excavating this story and responding to the inapt association with apartheid, I will mainly rely on a close reading of the Ethiopian constitution along with its immediate antecedents and the story it tells about both the past and the future so that we can locate the federalism in that story. By so doing, I will also highlight, in passing, how different the assumptions, principles, and goals that motivated apartheid are from their counterparts in Ethiopia.'], ['As is hinted at already, federalism in Ethiopia is a heavily contested notion. Owing to the hegemonic status that centralized unitary modes of governance enjoyed for long in Ethiopia,\xa0 federalism is often viewed as a qualitatively inferior mode of governance that has to be justified on other grounds (such as normative pluralism, peace, or justice). Consequently, its detractors have more terms with which to denounce it than its proponents have to ennoble it. Hence, the frequent use of the inaccurate term ‘ethnic federalism’ to refer to it. More unkind commentators would refer to it as ‘tribal [ye-gosa], or racist [ye-zer], federalism’. They thus use terms such as ‘balkanization’,‘ethnicization,’‘bantustanization,’ and, as in the most recent iterations, ‘apartheid’ to describe the dispensation that Ethiopia’s federal experiment seeks to put in place. Consequently, two decades after its formal adoption, and the life of a generation is shaped by it in more ways than one, it is still controverted as the appropriate option for Ethiopia’s transformation from a centralised state-socialist/state-nationalist state into a multi-foundational, multinational, multicultural federal republic premised on a just social foundation.'], ['To be sure, the project of redemptive transformation has faltered, or perhaps derailed for good, and for good reasons that reveal how the ruling party, the Ethiopian Peoples’ Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF), posing ambiguously in relation to the federal arrangement, is at once the custodian and the major subverter of the federalist project. This ambiguous posture of the EPRDF vis-à-vis the federal structure (paradoxically both as the primary sponsor and principal saboteur of the federal system) has contributed to this derailment of the transformative goal of federalism. This in turn has disaffected many a federalist forcing them to retract their initial support for the federal dispensation. In this section, I offer a sketchy ‘description’ of the federal system in context. But to help us get a more complete picture, it is important to identify some of the misconceptions that cloud our vision of the federal arrangement. It is important to stress that the criticisms marshalled against the federal arrangement are buttressed and reinforced by the misconceptions that surround it.'], ['Consequently, the discursive undermining of the federal system relies on and contributes back to the old narrative that privileges the core over the periphery, the center over the margin, the dominant self over the subaltern other. It is part of what some, following tack of Donald Levine,[iv] rather benignly characterize as the ‘Greater Ethiopia’ narrative which takes the “Geez civilization”[v] as the core of the empire that subsumes all the rest under it. This dominant narrative that is deployed to undermine the federal experiment feeds from and feeds into several misconceptions about the federal arrangement.'], ['One major misconception (or at times deliberate distortion) is noted in the characterization of the federation as ‘ethnic’ when in actual fact it is a multinational one. The term ‘ethnicity’ does not occur in Ethiopia’s constitutional language, in part because the ‘Nations, Nationalities’ rhetoric of the constitution is not directly translatable to the concept of ethnicity frequented in the rhetoric of liberal democracies and in part because the word ethnicity does not have an exact equivalent in Ethiopian languages. The use, in some circles, of ‘ethnicity’ interchangeably with gosa, a term that is closer in meaning to tribe than ethnicity, is a chosen way of belittling the effort to address the challenge of diversity. Given the fact that the constituent units are ‘nations’ (or a union of several ‘nations’) and given none of the states are ethnically homogenous, it is a misnomer to refer to the Ethiopian system as an ‘ethnic federation’.'], ['Another oft repeated misconception is that Ethiopia’s federation seeks to build unity out of diversity (E Pluribus Unum) when in actual fact what it establishes is diversity in unity, i.e., a union of diverse nations in one larger polity (Plures in Uno, i.e., many in one). This misconception has often led to the confusion about the model of state-and nation-building aspired for under the federal dispensation.'], ['The mistaking of regime transition for state transformation is another misconception usually entertained among the political elites of the regime in power. The change of regime, some assume, is also a change of the infrastructure of inequality that is the foundation of the Ethiopian imperial state. As a result, they denounce the quest for ethno-cultural justice and the demand for self-determination as irrelevant in post-Derg Ethiopia.[vi] While there is a change of regime to be sure, we are yet to see a transformation of the Ethiopian imperial state to a fairer, more just, more equitable, and democratically governed polity.'], ['Two decades into the experiment, it is still remiss of us that what the federation does is a movement from a uni-foundational empire state to a multinational, multi-foundational republic ensconced on the constitutionally established set of principles that go beyond ‘blood and soil’. These principles (stated in arts 8-12 of the constitution as popular sovereignty, constitutionalism, human rights, secularism, and rule of law) render the old source of legitimacy (force, religion, and genealogy/tradition)[vii] obsolete. More importantly, it recognizes the co-eval presence and co-equal participation in the founding of the republic.[viii] By so doing, it makes a pronouncement that there is no hierarchic or core-periphery relationship among Ethiopia’s constituents. This misunderstanding of foundational issues is one of the misconceptions that are unaccounted for in the discourse on federalism and in the many instances of undermining it.'], ['To some people, just because Amharic is the working language of the Federal government, it follows that everyone speaks, or should speak, Amharic. They hardly understand that Amharic is the language of the federal officials and institutions, not the language of the Ethiopian peoples (other than the Amhara people).'], ['In recent discussions regarding the ‘Master Plan’ of Finfinne (which non-Oromos call Addis Abeba), another misconception was foregrounded: the misconception that Finfinne is a federal city when what it actually is, is the seat of the federal government.\xa0 It should be emphasized, then, that Finfinne is an Oromo city that is also serving as the seat of the Federal Government. It should have been clear by now that the city is not a designated federal district or federal territory. In fact, no territory is directly the territory of the federal government for domestic legal and political purposes. For international law purposes, the federal government represents Ethiopia as a country that claims the territory of its constituent states as its territory (art 2).'], ['Moreover, one frequently meets people who mistake federalism for decentralized governance. These people fail to realize that federalism is not only a decentralized government but also non-centralized mode of governance. This misconception leads most people to confuse the states with the provinces (Kiflate-Hager, or Teklay-Gizat) of olden days, especially in the area of inter-governmental relations. This understanding has led to the treatment of the federal government as superior to state governments, federal laws as superior to state laws, federal institutions as superior to state institutions. It has also led to the treatment of the federal government as the ‘central’ government that spreads power to the periphery.'], ['2.1.\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0 ‘Description’: The Constitutional Context'], ['In this sketchy description, I will focus on the founding, the goals, the principles, and assumptions of the Ethiopian federation. I will also limit myself to a quick, if veiled, identification of some of the institutions created for operationalizing the principles of self-rule and shared rule. The constitution makes it clear from the outset that the founders of the Ethiopian polity are the many ‘nations, nationalities, and peoples’[ix] of Ethiopia (‘nations’ for short in this piece). As has been hinted at in earlier sections, the opening statement makes it clear that federal Ethiopia is a multinational republic co-founded by co-equal and co-eval sovereign entities that wield constitutive authority. The sovereignty that found its loci in the constituent nations is later re-stated as one of the fundamental principles of the constitution (article 8). This sovereignty is already exercised when it was operationalized through self-determination (also recognized as a right later in art 39) supposedly through (for me, the flawed) election that led to the establishment of the constituent assembly in 1994. That the institution whose membership is representatives of these ‘nations’—the House of Federation—has the ultimate interpretive authority is the function of this foundational imperative that made them the custodians of the constitution and the umpires of the federation (while also serving as a site of exercising shared rule). The moral that emerges from this is that Ethiopia is no more a uni-national polity, that it is not a country of peoples identified as core and periphery, that there is no more hierarchy among its constituents who have primacy to determine ‘the cultural DNA’ of the country.'], ['The primary goal of the federal set up is to speak to a history of uneven relationships among the various constituent nations. It thus seeks to dismantle the infrastructure of hierarchy thereby formally renouncing inequality and discrimination (much in a language that echoes anti-apartheid rhetoric in South Africa). The federation is posited as the first step to transform Ethiopia from a mono-foundational, mono-vocal, mono-confessional empire to a multi-foundational, multi-vocal, multi-confessional, secular, socially just federal republic.\xa0 The unstated ultimate goal is redemptive in aspiration (i.e., overcoming the deficits of substantive and formal equality, liberty, democracy, and all the other virtues that go along with these). Its stated goal is to forge an economic and political community that is based on the principle of equality, non-discrimination while also addressing/rectifying historical injustices. Perhaps informed by the history of warfare and strife, it also seeks to dispense ‘lasting peace.’[x]'], ['The right to self-determination is the organizing principle of the Ethiopian constitution. Self-determination, exercised as a primal right of the ‘nations’, gave birth to the constitution. The constitution constituted the state as a federal republic. Apart from this overarching principle that ‘restored sovereignty’ to formerly oppressed (and yes, some colonized) peoples, there are other ‘fundamental principles’ that serve as the interpretive tools and framework of understanding for the constitution. \xa0These principles are the sovereignty of ‘nations’ (and their peoples) (art 8), constitutional supremacy and constitutionalism (art 9), sanctity of human rights (art 10), secularism (art 11), and transparency and accountability of government (art 12). These articles are further corroborated by the policy objectives and directive principles in chapter 10, the principles that guide government policies in the country. These principles pertain to diplomatic (art 86), military (art 87), political (art 88), economic (art 89), social (art 90), cultural (art 91), and environmental (art 92) objectives of the Ethiopian state. These principles, combined, furnish moral imperatives that guide policy making while also articulating the values the state stands for.'], ['The assumption on which the federal logic is built is that the century old nation building project premised on a state nationalist basis has failed.\xa0 Ethiopia has proved to be “a prison house of nations” in which groups are subjected to a range of forms of oppression. This assumption is rooted in and found its potent articulation in the student movement discourse of the 1960s on how to solve “the national question” in Ethiopia. [xi] Assimilationist policies of the old emperors having failed, there was a need to accommodate ‘competing nationalisms’[xii] albeit on the terms of the “center”. That it was posed as a question betrays who is facing it as such and is taking responsibility to “answer” the question. However, it is this assumption (that there is a question, a problem!) that precedes the decision to devise a federal set up that takes account of ethno-national differences. It was the assumption that there is fundamental inter-group inequality that pervades the state structure and its age old assimilationist policies that led to the recognition of diversity (preamble, art 8, etc), inter-personal and inter-group equality (arts 25, 39), the right to difference (in culture, language, and narrative) (art 39(2)), and territorial autonomy (art 39(1,3, and 4). As a result, all Ethiopian languages are co-equally official and the federal government and the state governments could only have working languages. Article 5 indicates that Amharic is the working language of the federal government. (This is a continuation of the trend that the Derg started when it recognized equality among languages and decided to have Amharic as a working, not official, language. See Art 2 of the People’s Democratic Republic of Ethiopia (PDRE) Constitution.)[xiii]'], ['From the above discussion one can observe—contrary to what Dr Taye claims–that in its foundations, its goals, its principles, and its underlying assumptions, the Ethiopian federal system is very different from the ‘homeland’ system of apartheid South Africa.'], ['After outlining the fundamental principles in its chapter 2 and presenting a catalogue of fundamental rights in chapter three, the constitution, in its chapter 4, discusses the structure of the state where it lists the nine members that constitute the federation which themselves are delimited on the basis of “settlement pattern, language, identity, and the consent of the people concerned (arts 46(2) cum art.47).[xiv] Art 46(1) makes it clear that the members are called ‘States’ (a term rendered kilil in Amharic) (art 50(2)). Changes to the borders of the states–if disputed, and failing agreement between the concerned States–is done in accordance with settlement pattern and “the wishes of the people concerned”(art 48). Despite the asymmetry in size, population, economy, and natural endowment among the States, the constitution stipulates that they have equal rights and equal powers (art 47(4)).[xv] Finfinne/Addis Abeba is designated to be the seat of the federal government while it is also the capital city of Oromia (art 49). For administrative purposes, the city is excised from Oromia’s jurisdiction and is granted a status of a self-governing chartered city accountable to the Federal government (art 49(2-3)). Conscious of the excision and Oromia’s consequent loss of jurisdiction over the city, its ‘special interest’ is recognized (art 49(5)) although that was never implemented in practice.'], ['Power is divided between the federal and state governments (art 50(8)). Much like it is the case in other federations, the federal government commands foreign relations, immigration, defense, currency, international trade, inter-state commerce, infrastructure, and communication,\xa0 science and technology, standards and measurements, etc. (art 51). The states are ‘left with’ residual powers (art 52). Concurrent powers (shared and/or joint ones) are also envisaged in the constitution. To help enhance self-rule, the constitution provides for power to make constitutions at the State level (art 52(2)b)). The sub-national constitutional space is envisaged as the primary site of actualizing self-rule. Accordingly all the states have adopted their own state constitutions since 1995. In those constitutions, they have invariably designed normative, institutional, and procedural structures that they thought suits the needs of their own distinct demos. In terms of demographic configuration, none of the states are homogenous, but most of the states (Afar, Amhara, Oromia, Somalia, Tigray, and Harari) are named after the name of the dominant national group in those states. This often gives the wrong impression that the states are formed purely on the basis of ‘ethnicity.’'], ['The structure of the federal government is parliamentarian (art 45). Ideally, the federal government institutions serve mainly as sites of shared rule while institutions of state governments serve as sites of self-rule. Needless to say, the constitution establishes various institutions to operationalize the federal arrangement. As a frame of government, first it establishes the triaspolitika, i.e., the legislature (arts 53-61), the executive (arts 72-77), and the judiciary (arts 78-81). The House of Representatives (HPR), the lower house of the (formally) bicameral legislature (arts 54-61), is the supreme political organ to which individuals are elected on plurality basis from 550 electoral districts of 100,000 inhabitants (art 54(3)). The HPR commands all legislative power over matters pertaining to the domain of the federal government. It thus exercises all the decisional,[xvi] deliberative,[xvii] and control/scrutiny[xviii] powers. The constitution provides for a quota of 20 seats for “minority nationalities” (art 54(3)).'], ['The House of Federation (HOF) (arts 62-71), which poses as the upper house of the (formally bicameral) federal legislature (art 53), serves as the “house of nations”[xix] in which each nation is represented at least by one representative and one more for every additional one million that each nation has. Designed to be an institution of representation and participation (for the diverse nations), the HOF is supposed to enhance the shared rule component of the federalism. Constitutionally speaking, the members to the HOF may be elected directly by the people or indirectly by the state legislatures (61(3)). In practice, the members are so far elected only indirectly through the State Legislatures mostly from among their own members. In recent years, when the budget negotiations in the HOF became increasingly tough, the Executive officials of the State (including the Presidents of the States) began to participate in the HOF as members.'], ['One of the key tasks of the HOF is interpretive (art 62(1)). In fact, textually speaking, it is the ultimate interpreter of the constitution. In this task, it is supported by an expert advisory body called the Council of Constitutional Inquiry (CCI) (Arts 81-84), the last vestige of the original proposal to have a constitutional court that serves as the apex court in the judicial hierarchy of the federation.[xx] The CCI is an 11-person body composed of six reputed legal professionals nominated by the HPR and appointed by the President; the President and Vice President of the federal Supreme Court; and three members designated by and from the HOF (art. 82(2)). This body examines the constitutional-legal issues in disputes and makes recommendations to the HOF on the kind of interpretation that, ideally, better preserves the core values, principles, structure, and integrity of the constitutional order. The operational details of HOF and the CCI are articulated in detail in Proclamations 250 and 251 of 2000. They also have their own rules of procedure for their proceedings.[xxi]'], ['Rather idiosyncratically, the HOF is an ‘unlegislating legislature’ with little involvement in law making (such as identification of civil law areas over which the federal government needs to legislate on account of creating one economic community; or identifying the set of criteria that go into the formula for equitable sharing of revenues among the states). And in this, it seems to be an institution set up to perform a meta-legislative task.'], ['The federal executive is made of the Council of Ministers (led by a primus inter pares Prime Minister) and a ceremonial Head of State (the President of the Republic). The Prime Minister is elected by the Political party that has the majority of the seats in parliament. Much to the consternation of Ethiopia’s opposition, there is no term limit to the tenure of the Prime Minister.'], ['The federal judiciary is a three-tiered ensemble of Supreme, High, and First Instance courts.[xxii] Although there hardly is an explicit proscription, in practice, the court manifests disinterest in reviewing legislations for constitutionality. It generally shies away from entertaining disputes inviting constitutional interpretation. This and the state’s continuous strategic deployment of law for political purposes are among many factors that lead scholars to characterize the Ethiopian system as one of rule by law rather than rule of law.[xxiii] Indeed, the system looks to manifest ‘authoritarian rule of law’ akin to East Asian systems such as that of Singapore.[xxiv]'], ['The system being sensitive, in theory, to human rights (nearly a third of the constitution is devoted to human rights in its famous entrenched, albeit mostly non-justiciable, chapter three), the constitution envisaged the establishment of specific human rights institutions such as the Institution of the Ombudsman and Human Rights Commission (both of which were subsequently established through statutes, Proclamations 210/2000 and 211/2000).'], ['In practice, the Ethiopian federal experiment has evolved and has passed through four major stages: a) devolution (1991-1994), b) aggregation, constitutional moment of ‘coming together’ (1994)), c) decentralization (1995-1998) and d) back to centralization (1998, especially since 2001 to date).[xxv] The process can thus be summarized as a movement from centralization to decentralization to re-centralization increasingly eclipsing federal non-centralization. This movement towards re-centralization is visible especially in several post-2001 acts of the federal government, the most notable of which is the Federal Intervention Law (Proclamation 359/2003), the formation of the Ministry of Federal Affairs and assigning it responsibilities that control and discipline the States, the reorganization of the federal police under the Ministry of Federal Affairs, the establishment of Federal Courts in states such as Gambella and SNNPRS starting from 2003, and other legislations and policies that pertain to urban development.'], ['These centralizing tendencies, coupled with the increasing authoritarianism reinforced by the more recent laws on charities and societies (Proc 621/2009), media (Proc 590/2008), and antiterrorism (Proc 652/2009) (which themselves have been preceded by other policies that articulate the ‘developmentalist’ nature of the state), have superseded the ethics of non-centralization in federalism.'], ['No doubt, the Ethiopian federation manifests some distinct features such as its generous recognition of collective rights including secession (side by side with the standard liberal individual civil and political rights); its daring posture to recognize the political salience of ethno-national categories as important (which stands in a rare contrast to the trend in Africa[xxvi]); its unique mode of constitutional interpretation (by the upper house of the legislature); its unlegislating upper house; and its lack of explicit provisions on executive power-sharing.'], ['Having done the above brief textual context, we now turn to the historical and political context in which to locate the story/ies of the Ethiopian federalism.'], ['2.2.\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0 The Context: State and Political Crises in the Background'], ['The historical juncture at which the federation came into being is crucial to the discussion of the Ethiopian federation. It was negotiated in the times between 1991 and 1994, a time which, seen in the longue duree of the history of the Ethiopian state, witnessed a crisis. It was a historical moment that signified the failure of a model of nation-building process that started in the 19th century. It was a moment that marked the failure of the state’s attempt to build one nation out of many (e pluribus unum). The attempt to build one nation out of many was first done through overt acts of imperial violence, then through a policy of coercive assimilation, and later through a more subtle policy of integration through recognition of formal equality (a process of exclusion through inclusion). In 1991, the most emphatically centralist of all the Ethiopian regimes, the Derg, having just collapsed, it was a moment when ‘things fell apart’ for the empire and the ‘centre couldn’t hold’ anymore. It was a moment of failure of an idea (i.e., a model of nation-building) and the beginning of a rival idea (an alternative mode of nation-building). It was a moment when after what has hitherto been viewed as the ‘centre’ has imploded, the ‘peripheries’ came to try their hands at state craft and unwittingly started what looked like an attempt at keeping ‘many nations in one’, plures in uno. The forces of the ‘periphery’ that brought the agenda of the ‘periphery’ to the centre stage were ‘national liberation fronts’ which, in the language of the Transitional Charter, referred to themselves as ‘the peace loving forces of Ethiopia’. The ‘periphery’ took the ‘center’ and filled what looked like a power vacuum after the implosion of the state. Having found themselves in a rare historical moment at which to (re)build the Ethiopian state on a different edifice, the ‘founders’ took to federalism as an option to reconfigure the state. The mission assigned to the state by the international community (practically the US) at the time was three-fold: to pluralize the politics, to liberalize the economy, and to decentralize the state. The government (or the transitional place holders) thus promised a transition into an era of multiparty democracy, free market economy, and multinational federalism. The latter was opted for in order to restructure the state, reconfigure citizenship and its foundations (for ‘Ethiopians’), equalize the hitherto ‘unequals’, undo ethno-cultural injustice, defuse ethno-national conflicts, and establish a lasting peace.[xxvii]'], ['The major protagonists that undertook the task at the time were the parties in the Transitional Council of Representatives. (COR). They represented about 26 primarily ethno-nationalist liberation fronts that comprised the 87-seat council.[xxviii] The dominant political party was the EPRDF (with 32 seats) followed by the Oromo Liberation Front (OLF – with 10 seats). Other smaller parties had their seats as well. One can characterize all these parties as forces of the periphery that captured the center and had to forge the new modes of relating to one another in a new yet-to-be-reconstructed state. The ways in which these seats were divided among them is not transparently done; they were a result of several behind the scene negotiations. EPRDF, OLF, and most of these parties had an orthodox commitment to the principle of self-determination of people. True to their liberationist ethos, the best they could imagine to accept in a possible life with others in Ethiopia is a federal system with accent on autonomy and difference allowing for secession; not as much for actualizing independence as an exit route should the center threaten to violate their democratic rights. By making it at the top of the political agenda of the day, they seemed to have seen self-determination as a counter-imperial emancipatory principle that dislodges oppressive (and colonial and imperial) state. They viewed self-determination as the condition that creates a possibility for restructuring and transforming the Ethiopian imperial state. Genealogically, finding a base and a ground in the student movement of the 1960s (and so speaking back to a repressive imperial state), they saw self-determination not only as a political principle but also as a moral-legal right that helps enhance democracy, human rights, and equality in dignity. The Transitional Charter they signed into force as an interim constitution starts with a recounting of the words of the 1948 UN Declaration, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR).[xxix]'], ['The Transitional Charter laid down the first steps toward federalizing a hitherto centralized unitary system that remained essentially the same in structure even after the change of regime in 1974. It viewed the collapse of the Derg which marked the crisis of state as a moment of opportunity for restructuring it on a democratic basis. The Charter also underscored the replacement of the era of “subjugation and oppression” by an era in which “freedom, equality, and self-determination of all peoples shall be the governing principles of political, economic, and social life” thereby also rescuing the Ethiopian peoples from “subjugation and backwardness.” (Paragraph 2, preamble). Being also a truce document, the Charter insisted on “a democratic order as a categorical imperative” for establishing “the reign of a just peace” through cessation of hostilities, healing of wounds, and\xa0 resolution of conflicts (Paragraph 3). It also insists on the dismantling of institutions of repression, redressing of “regional prejudices”, and safeguarding of “the rights and interests of deprived citizens” through “a democratic government elected by and accountable to the people.” (Paragraph 5). In many ways, the Charter sought to undo and/or correct the past mistakes and ushering in a democratic future. It suggests that it has a remedial (seen in the language of redress) and prevention (seen in the language of newness).'], ['After endorsing all human rights as codified in the UDHR, it went on to emphatically recognize, in its article 2, the right to self-determination (i.e., the right to difference, the right to self-government, and the right to conditional secession). It also envisaged the establishment of “local governments” (art 5, cum art 13) with the right to self-governance through elected councils. The local governments were to be established on the basis of settlement pattern [the English version actually says ‘nationality’] (art 13).'], ['The close reading of the constitutional context (the textual commitments both in the Constitution and Transitional Charter), the historical context (the state crisis and the consequent enthusiasm to reconstruct it on an alternative, if only more democratic and more just, foundation), and political contexts (the post-Derg configuration of political interests and the parties behind those interests) do not suggest any similarity with apartheid South Africa. The guiding principles, the underlying assumptions, the goals and objectives—and even the pretension around implementing these through elections et al) — contrary to claims otherwise — suggest that the federal dispensation is in fact the exact antithesis of apartheid. This does not however mean that the Ethiopian government doesn’t have practices that one can denounce even by likening them to the practices of Apartheid South Africa.'], ['Central to the notion of federalism is covenantal consent.[xxx] This consent is often embodied in a written constitution that not only demarcates the boundaries of power but also prescribes the rules that govern the relationship among the various orders or spheres of government. This is why scholars in the field insist on the existence of a written, supreme, rigid or entrenched constitution that is interpreted by an impartial tribunal.[xxxi]\xa0 Presumably, the constitution is the aggregation of the consent of all the diverse constituent units. Deficit in consent at the various stages of the constitution-making casts a shadow on the legitimacy of the constitution that gives birth to and circumscribes the federation.'], ['Federalism is also a form of governance in which power is divided and shared between and/or among different tiers of government. This division of power emanates from the broken/dual sovereignty that is characteristic of federal polities. As a result, sovereignty is divided in such a way that the constituent units govern themselves at the sub-national level and they govern the larger polity together at the federal level. This is the essence of the principle encapsulated in the self-rule PLUS shared rule formula paramount in federations. In providing for self-rule and shared rule, federalism makes room for the exercise of autonomy in a larger union. In federations where the constituent units adopt their own constitutional texts, the sub-national constitutional space is used as a site of deepening self-rule and actualizing sub-national sovereignty.'], ['Collateral to the principle of self-rule and shared rule is also the principle of subsidiarity that guides federal division of power and coordination of actions of the different spheres of government. The principle of subsidiarity gives primacy to subnational “hands” for handling sub-national problems or matters. Accordingly, only matters that the sub-national units cannot handle are consigned to the national/federal government.'], ['In devolutionary federations such as Ethiopia, federalization involves decentralization but it goes further to embrace non-centralization. Contrary to popular understanding in Ethiopia, non-centralization–not just decentralization–is at the heart of federalism and that distinguishes it from forms of decentralized government. In other words, the federal government cannot unilaterally take (back) the power of the states without a constitutional amendment.'], ['The above are some of the key features recurrent in most federal systems. Multinational federations such as Switzerland, Belgium, Bosnia-Herzegovina, and Canada (to an extent), provide for a de jure and/or de facto power-sharing in the Executive and even in the judiciary among the elites of the constituent units. Comparative studies suggest that the units in multinational federations tend to be protective of their autonomy and increasingly more demanding for equitable share of federal/national power, resources, and opportunities. The demand for secession is also more visible, and at times even legally intelligible, among multinational federations than their non-multinational counterparts. As is the case in Canada (Quebec), India (Kashmir), Belgium (Flanders), Nigeria (Biafra), Spain (Catalonia and the Basque Country), multinational federations are challenged by the demands for secession whether they formally recognize the right in the constitution or not.'], ['For us to judge whether a polity is federal or not, the ultimate criteria of evaluation will be the extent to which self-rule and shared rule is exercised. Does apartheid South Africa qualify as a federation when it doesn’t have any of these basic features which serve as descriptors of a federation?'], ['4.1.\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0 Comparing the Incomparable: A Tale of Two Federations, Or Two different Tales of Repressive Governance?'], ['If ‘Ethnic federalism’ (assuming it means a federal arrangement that takes account of ethnicity as a politically salient component of the federal structure) is a consent based system that forges a union out of disparate ethnic groups on the basis of the principle of self-rule and shared rule, it is conceptually difficult how one can equate it with the homeland system of apartheid South Africa. One only needs to ask as to whether in apartheid South Africa, the blacks, the Indians, the coloured, and the Afrikaners were engaged in self-rule locally and in shared rule nationally, especially the latter. For all we know, the pass laws are a graphic reminder that the Apartheid government policed and regulated even the movement of black bodies to contain and control them within a designated territory until and unless their labour is called upon for service in the farms, factories, or mining centers. Even the private lives of blacks (including their sexuality and marital life) was regulated by apartheid laws that proscribe intermarriages. Considering the fact that the blacks were disenfranchised and that they were not involved in shared governance of South Africa (in deed the whole system was designed to exclude the blacks from any form of national governance), it is impossible to imagine how it can even qualify as a federal arrangement. The system was a form of extending the legacy of settler colonialism which in itself was achieved through violence.'], ['Once we decide that apartheid South Africa was not a federal system, it becomes clear that it is a non-starter to invoke it as an object of comparison in a discussion regarding Ethiopia’s federal system. It is also impossible to develop a tale, i.e., one story, by comparing these two incomparable systems. What we could tell is perhaps two tales,[xxxii] two distinct stories, of two different systems of governance unrelated not only in time and space but also in the structure of their logic.'], ['4.2.\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0 Tales of a Federation in a Fractured Multinational Polity—and Redirecting a Tale as a Critique of a Repressive Regime'], ['In the way it is framed in the piece by Dr Taye Negussie and provocatively remarked on by Dr Asfawosen,[xxxiii] the attempt to draw parallels between the Ethiopian federation and apartheid South Africa is more a critique of the former than a comparative appraisal of the latter. Seen in this light, it becomes clear that it is part of the discursive contestation with the dominant state narrative about the federal dispensation. It is coming to grips with the matter from a different angle, from a different place, a place that identifies with the hero (the oppressed blacks in South Africa) in order to authorize oneself to undermine the villain (the racist apartheid regime). From this place, it becomes easy to assume a moral high ground to pass a judgement about the federation (already undermined by the identification with apartheid rule) about the democratic credentials of the federal system. By just invoking the term ‘apartheid’, we delegitimize its claims to ethno-cultural justice, its quest for undoing an unjust past. We turn it into the most degenerate system of governance that has to be eradicated along with its claims to justice et al. We note, of course, that this is also a contest about history, an attempt to erase the memory of a bad past that the federal dispensation speaks to, a tactical move to dissolve the ‘problems’ it seeks to resolve. In a sense, it is a call for selective collective amnesia, a refusal to remember.'], ['This suggests that the story of federalism in Ethiopia is not just one. How many stories are there, then? How many stories can we tell about it, then? I now turn to these questions. Owing to the contested nature of federalism, there are different tales people could tell about it. In this section, I will first present a summary of these multiple tales of federalism in Ethiopia one after another. I will then suggest that the association with apartheid is more a manifestation of the incommensurability of the stories we can tell about the federalism in Ethiopia than its actual likeness to apartheid. Out of the contestation around the Ethiopian federal system, there emerged two dominant narratives that keep clashing season in, season out. And the clash between them has invisibilized a third narrative that I seek to highlight in this section.'], ['Accordingly, the most dominant narrative is the narrative of the detractors of the federal arrangement which, as has been suggested earlier on, deploys several terms that invoke memories of diversity management that went awry such as ‘balkanization’, bantustanization, tribalization, ethnicization, soviet style federation, socialist federation[xxxiv], apartheid, and genocide (Rwanda style).[xxxv] According to this narrative, the regime in power is using federalism merely to advance its strategy of ‘divide and rule’. In this narrative, the story line goes as follows:'], ['…there was once a great country governed as one (from time immemorial). Its diverse people lived in harmony in what is ‘a museum of people’[xxxvi] (except for some dynastic and expansionist wars in the rivalry for power). The people, ever vigilant of external enemies who sought to impose their suzerainty upon them, readily collaborated to defend their sovereignty against colonizers. The story of the late 19th and the early 20th century is a story of modernization and civilization (Western style). The unity of the country was established on a firm foundation especially in the last century. People were intermarrying, cultures were intermixing, and people were coming together. Ethiopia was becoming a melting pot of cultures. The language of the dominant cultural core (Amharic), by a mere accident of history, was becoming a common ‘national’ (i.e., country-wide) vernacular. The reunion of Eritrea with its ‘motherland’ after WWII completed the historic quest for unity. Ethiopian identity was beyond and above the different particular ethno-national identities. It is not only transcendent but also neutral to cultures or languages of Ethiopia. The devolution and subsequent federalization is a de-stablizer to the longstanding unity and territorial integrity of the country. It is divisive to the people and ultimately destructive of Ethiopia. It is a reversal of the project of unification…'], ['The story of federalism in Ethiopia, according to this narrative, is a story of fragmentation and a potential dismemberment of Ethiopia as ‘we’ know it so far.'], ['Heavily reliant on the great ‘Ethiopianist’ tradition, this narrative glosses over the lived experiences of the peoples of the non-Abyssinian heritages (of those who often figure as the pagan, the ‘falasha’, and the Muslim other) and the range of oppression (conquest, raid, and repressive genocide; violent dispossession and displacement; cultural domination and denigration; discrimination, marginalization and exclusion; erasure of language, voice, and narratives; economic exploitation; retardation and loss of socio-political and legal institutions, etc) inflicted upon them systematically in the process of ‘nation-building’. It seeks to ignore the excesses of nationalism, and when it is reminded, it acquiesces in it by rationalizing it (as a necessary price to be paid for independence from European colonialism or a historical inevitability demanded by the time).[xxxvii]\xa0 In this narrative, Ethiopia’s plurality tends to pass unacknowledged. When it is, it is viewed either in the immemorial past or a transient phenomenon we are going to outgrow soon, or a politically negligible ‘problem’ that foreigners and ‘historic enemies’ seek to create. To this narrative, rethinking the approach to state-building by re-centering Ethiopia’s ‘multitudes’ is not only dangerous to Ethiopia’s ‘sovereignty and territorial integrity’ but also a divisive to the people as it invokes irrelevant trivial primordial tribalist sentiments. The institutionalization of federalism on a multinational, multi-foundational, multicultural basis is thus a historical heresy. This story, which served as the official/state narrative until the fall of the Derg, is only one story that is told about the genesis of the federal dispensation. For there is another story, a second story, that is being told.'], ['The second dominant narrative is that which is maintained by the regime in power, which I call the \xa0\xa0official or state narrative.[xxxviii] In this narrative, the state’s self-description looms large. The story goes as follows:'], ['…there was an old imperial state called Ethiopia. Its boundaries bulged and shrinked from time to time depending on its relative military and economic strength. In the late 19th and early 20th century, the state began consolidating and it attained its current territorial and demographic shape. The process was unwieldy. Through brutal series of imperial conquests, people were subjugated, rival nations were subdued and deprived of self-governance, and territories were occupied. The state adopted a wide range of unjust policies (political, social, economic, cultural, linguistic, and negatively, environmental) that was repressive and destructive of the way of being of the people Ethiopia considered its others. Constitutionally-legally, the state sanctioned a hierarchical order that sees the Abyssinian at the top, the Galla (i.e., the Oromo and the Cushitic speaking people of the wider South) in the middle, and the Shanqilla (the Omotic and Nilotic peoples of the South-Western and Western periphery) at the bottom. In terms of religion, the hierarchy maintains the Orthodox Christian at the top, the Muslim in the second, the Jews (alias bete-Israel, but pejoratively known as the ‘Falasha’ and the pagan (the aremenie) at the bottom of the ladder.[xxxix] This hierarchy defines the insider and the outsider in the empire. This distinction informed the problematic and unresolved issue of national identity making the progressive and restless youth of the 1960s ask: “Who is the Ethiopian?”. The injustice perpetrated in the course of creating, institutionalizing and operationalizing this hierarchy and the material poverty of the people, especially those in the lower rung of the hierarchy and in the lower class of even the Abyssinian core, itched and pained reformists and revolutionaries across time. In time, this led to the student movement that catalyzed the 1974 upheaval. The revolution dethroned the monarch, deposed the aristocracy, suspended the constitution, dismissed the parliament, redistributed land and houses, proclaimed socialism, and sought to transform the society into a communist society by first changing the state into a socialist one. Although it acknowledged the challenge of diversity, it hesitated to restructure the state radically in the light of the plurality of the people and their demands for equality, inclusion, autonomy, and secession (among some groups such as Eritrea, Ogaden, and Oromiya). In a gesture aimed at containing the demands, the military regime introduced a ‘National Democratic Revolution Program’ in 1976, acknowledged the diversity and equality of languages, ran basic education programs in (about 12 or 13) select languages (albeit with Sabean scripts), and subsequently established the Institute of Nationalities to study the diversity and design a constitution for a state that accommodates all these ‘people’. However, the military regime insisted on the ‘Ethiopia First’ motto as its fundamental postulate, the grundnorm, on which the polity is built. Consequently, Ethiopia failed to face its plurality in earnest. It thus squandered the opportunity to address the ‘question of nationalities’.'], ['In response, protracted ‘civil’ wars raged from all directions. Liberation movements proliferated. When the regime eventually collapsed in 1991, these liberation movements came together as ‘the peace loving forces of Ethiopia’ to ‘rebuild and restructure the state’ on a democratic basis that recognizes not only the individual civil and political rights of citizens but also the collective rights of ‘nations, nationalities, and peoples’ to self-determination. Through this, peace was regained. Hostilities stopped. Sovereignties were restored to the nations. Self-governance was started. Languages, cultures, religions, customs, and traditions were set free ‘from bondage’ (as Mazrui would say)[xl]. A Transitional Charter was adopted to acknowledge this political fact and to serve as an interim constitutional pact. Fairly autonomous Regional self-governments were established in 1992. These governments were governed by their own elected local officials using local vernaculars as the working languages of their regions. Conditional right of secession was recognized under the Charter. Soon, a Constitutional Commission was established to draft a new constitution that follows the blue print laid down in the Transitional Charter. In 1994, a constitution was adopted.'], ['The constitution provided for a federal structure. It (re)founded Ethiopia as a multinational, multi-foundational, multicultural republic. It continued on the national self-determination rhetoric, only made it better. Secession became an unconditional constitutional right of a group. Regions became States. Federalism became the new mode of governance. Groups enjoy self-rule at the state and sub-state level while also enjoying shared rule at the country level. There are institutions of shared rule (for ensuring representation, participation, and power-sharing) at various levels. The HOF, ‘the house of nationalities,’ is one such site. …Linguistic justice is ensured at various levels. Amharic is the working language of the federal government. Other languages are used as chosen working languages of the State and local governments. All languages enjoy official status as they are used as media of instruction at least at elementary school level. The state is secular. All religions have equal status. Freedom of religion is recognized. Through recognizing the right to self-determination, the state emphatically addressed the historic ‘question of nationalities’. As a result, peace has reigned…'], ['\xa0The tone of this story is celebratory. It depicts a rosy picture of Ethiopia. The state is restructured on a democratic, plural, and just foundation. Ethiopian identity is put on a new pedestal defined in terms of mutual recognition, respect and equality in dignity. Ethno-national rights are fully recognized and ethno-cultural justice is advanced. The infrastructure of hierarchy is unsettled and dismantled. Individuals’ and minorities’ rights to equality and non-discrimination are respected through the instrumentality of constitutional human rights. The utopia is achieved. The ‘peaceable kingdom’[xli] is established. The renaissance has started.'], ['Accordingly, the detractors’ criticism is an empty noise. The state narrative maintains that some of these detractors belong to a group of sympathisers of the old unitarist regimes who still command the cultural power with which to denigrate the current dispensation and the collectivities it valorizes. Some others belong to ‘narrow nationalists’ who seek to de-stabilize the state and derail the peace and development endeavours of the state. By saying this, the regime authorizes itself to define its new ‘others’ as threats to the constitutional federal order and eliminate them as such.'], ['This story of course has a shadow side. The shadow side to the state/official narrative is the story of exclusion, repression, and co-optation that it renders unintelligible. It masks the violence EPRDF metes out on the voices of resistance from the historic periphery such as the Somali (ONLF), Gambela (GPDP), Oromia (OLF), Afar (AFL), and numerous other groups from the SNNPRS (such as the Sidama Liberation Movement [SLM]), and even from the ‘Center’ All Amhara People’s Organization (AAPO) from the very day of inauguration of the federal dispensation. It renders invisible this violent exclusion, not just of the parties but also of the populace behind them. It hides the story of how the EPRDF ensured that authentic popular voices are repressed as ‘narrow nationalists, anti-peace elements, and terrorists’). Moreover, it mutes the story of how EPRDF launched its long enduring campaign of co-optation through creation of ethno-national parties famously known as ‘PDOs (as in OPDO, GDPO, APDO, etc) although they also come in other acronyms (e.g. SPDM, ANDM, etc). It makes us desensitized to how, owing to the dominant nature of the party and the consequent subordination of the state to EPRDF, power is (re)centralized and states are deprived of their autonomy. It sanitizes what one can see as a retrenching of the fundamentally imperial character of the Ethiopian state. This suggests the emergence of another tale, another story, that can be told about the Ethiopian federation or the Ethiopian federation tells).'], ['The third narrative generally accepts the first premises of the second narrative. It accepts the diagnostic aspect of its analysis, i.e., the aspect that identifies the problems as a ‘crisis of state’ and the failure of a project of nation- and state-building that ignored and/or resisted the fact of national plurality. However, it rejects the prognostic aspect of that analysis, i.e., the aspect which prescriptively suggests that, since the political utopia is here and now and that the constitutional federalism has encapsulated and eternalized it, no resistance is tolerated. This narrative views this aspect of the prognosis as based on half-truths. Thus, it maintains that while it is true that the constitutional federalism that embraces multi-nationalism, multi-foundationalism, and multiculturalism is a step in the right direction, it is only a step that signals a road not yet travelled, not even half-travelled. This narrative can be summarized as follows:'], ['… as a result of the interplay of historical factors, the current Ethiopia is a land of diverse peoples. The inaugural violence deployed in the process of its formation and the imperial and hierarchic system of governance in the wake of its formation has created uneven and unjust relations among its diverse peoples. Apart from and on top of the raids, mass killings/genocides, dispossessions, displacements, domination, and exploitation, it inflicted wounds through its ‘act’ of unrecognition or misrecognition. As a result, the citizenship of the large majority of the non-Abyssinian peoples was generally discounted. They were treated as ‘subjects of empire’ who inhabit the margins of the polity (the realm of citizenship and participation in government). Even when it is benign, the Ethiopian state sees them as its ‘others’.'], ['Apart from the positive act of injustice inflicted upon them as individuals and cross-generationally as collectivities, it wounds them by resisting their attempts at inclusion and participation. It erases them from historical recollections even when they sacrificially contribute to the state-building project. Its failure at inclusion even on its own terms shows the limits of the state and the citizenship it confers. This, impenetrability of the state and this limits of the outer reach of citizenship makes clear only one thing: that the state is imperial with a clear core and periphery, centre and margin, inside and outside, thereby drawing a rigid boundary between what Mahmood Mamdani felicitously called “the citizen and the subject.”[xlii] The quest for inclusion –in-citizenship, this innocent demand to be in the polis, was reframed as the ‘question of nationalities’ by the progressive elite of the 1960s. By so doing, the elites of the ‘center’—while genuinely rebellious and resistant to the politics of empire—appropriated the subject position to determine who has to answer whose question. The ‘nations, nationalities, and peoples’ thus became a term that now denotes Ethiopia’s historic ‘others’ (albeit ‘respectfully’ this time around) thereby unwittingly creating another boundary between the apparently post-ethnic civic (Amhara-Tigray Abyssinian) identity on the one hand and the ethnic ‘other’ identities on the other.'], ['… Constitutional rhetoric aside, this imperial state is practically yet to be transformed in such a way that it turns subjects into citizens. The multi-foundational basis for the federation is yet to yield a co-equal citizenship and a state that is equally accessible to all. The constitutional recognition of the right of peoples to self-determination promises peaceful exit without warfare in the event that the terms of ‘living together’ are viewed as unfair to any of the constituent units. It is a guarantee against oppression in Ethiopia. It also holds out the promise of an open system that welcomes others in the neighborhood to join the federation just as much as it allows members to relinquish their membership in the federation. It might be the clause that actually unites while sounding like it divides. As a political principle, it encapsulates the seed that continually renews the polity by disallowing the risk of being too grounded in some definitive state orthodoxy. Nonetheless, the self-determination right of peoples has yet to deliver and secure democratic self-rule. It has only been strategically deployed by EPRDF to gain pseudo-legitimacy among the ‘other’ peoples of Ethiopia. It is being used to rationalize EPRDF rule. The constitutional federalism is only a reminder of, or a mere pointer to, the transformation to come. …'], ['Seen in aspirational terms, this third story marks an undelivered promise. In the eyes of the large majority of the peoples of the wider South (who can tell this story as their story about the federalism), Ethiopia’s multinational federalism had the promise of autonomy in the federal dispensation and the ‘restoration’ of lost sovereignty through self-determination, and the recognition of secession as an antidote to potential future repression (much in line with the preventive theory of secession). In its promise of self-determination, they see a spectre of their resistance to ‘northern’ hegemony that may rear its head again. It resists the closure the EPRDF seeks to bring to the quest for emancipation. It does so by posing as a living commentary—sort of a lamentation—of EPRDF’s consistent deployment of federalism to silence the periphery.'], ['Speaking to the past, first it reveals the story of their resistance to diverse forms and consequences of misrecognition. It yields a memory of saying ‘No’ to violent extermination and involuntary assimilation. It symbolizes a juridico-political act (albeit only discursive in pro tem) of memorializing, of re-membering, what they endured in the past.'], ['This story is the story of hope deferred. It represents a story of dreams unfulfilled, of promises undelivered, and of state transformative projects unfinished. It is a tale of the redemption yet to come. The most important political virtue that the federalism claims to promote is dispensation of ethno-cultural justice. However, while it is normatively validated and practically vindicated to an extent, it is yet to be fully actualized.'], ['—-'], ['From reading the above three competing stories one can tell about Ethiopia’s federalism, we can observe that the first story sees only a story of decline and possible dismemberment of Ethiopia. The second sees a story of arrival, as tory of ‘being there’ already, of having resolved the historical conundrum, and with that, the beginning of the ‘closure of history’. The third sees the story of deferred hope, undelivered promise, of unachieved transformation and it signals the imperative of continued resistance. \xa0From among these three, it is the first story, the story that longs for a return to the glory of the past that characterizes Ethiopia’s multinational federalism as ‘nothing but apartheid.’'], ['The motivation comes from the interest to delegitimize the system internally so that, in the event the regime in power relents, they will roll it back to a unitary system or at least a more centralized federation that is blind to ethno-national concerns. Genealogically speaking, the invocation of apartheid to ‘demonize’ the system—while it is inaccurate in every possible way–is merely a strategic ploy meant not only to discredit it as an alternative project of state- and nation-building but also to mute the discourse on it as an option to consider for future transformative tasks. This act helps also to rationalize the atrocities of the past and to absolve the historic Ethiopian state—past and present–from any responsibility. Sub-consciously, the people who promote this discourse might be repressing the guilt of perpetrating injustice that is much like the ones perpetrated by apartheid. Indeed, if one looks closely, there is more similarity between the structure of the logic of apartheid and the logic of the old Ethiopian empire than that between the former and the current federal system.'], ['4.3.\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0 Responding to misguided comparisons: attention to specifics – and to an abbreviated story of Apartheid and beyond – in passing '], ['In an attempt to show similarity between the Ethiopian federal arrangement and the homeland system of Apartheid, Dr Taye Negussie focused on the terms used, the guiding principles, and assumptions of the two systems. In particular, he drew a parallel between the Amharic word Kilil and the word apartheid claiming that both terms denote aparthood, or apartness. To start with, apartheid is not the term used to refer to the homelands. Moreover, the mere distaste for the word Kilil does not lead us to the conclusion that it denotes what it does not. Kilil (translated as ‘Region’ in the English version of the Proclamation that established Regional governments, Proclamation No 7/1992) has nothing to do with separate living or apartness. It only stands as the Amharic placeholder of the various terms used to refer to constituent units in federations, terms such as ‘states’ (USA, Australia, India, Ethiopia), ‘Provinces’(Canada, South Africa), ‘Cantons’(Switzerland), ‘Communes’ (Belgium), ‘Entities’ (Bosnia-Herzegovina), ‘Autonomous Regions’(Spain), and ‘Lander’ (Germany, Austria). In the Ethiopian constitution, the units are referred to as ‘states’ and the Amharic equivalent could only be ‘Mengist’, a term that conflates ‘State’ and ‘Government’. In practice, the term used is the more elaborate National Regional States. It is not clear how this denotes apartheid.'], ['The organizing principle of the Ethiopian federation is self-determination. The goal is the radical transformation of the state and democratizing the governance by restoring sovereignty to the people that hitherto have been under imperial cum colonial oppression. The objective is inclusion of the ‘other’ peoples of Ethiopia into equal citizenship and forging a country of which they are co-equal founders. The underlying principles of apartheid is subordination of the non-white people by establishing a racialized hierarchy that disenfranchises the large majority of the black, Indian, and colored population. In its most benignly articulated form, it was said to lead to ‘separate development’. That is what they wrongly referred to as federation. The objective is preservation of the white dominance and continuation of the colonial legacy by excluding the blacks from involvement in governance of South Africa.'], ['The assumption of the Ethiopian federation—its very starting point—is that there is a national oppression (of various forms) and that there is an ethno-national hierarchy (the Abyssinian at the top, the Galla [Oromo and the Southern nations] in the middle, and the Shanqilla at the bottom) that brought about ethno-cultural injustice. Federalism is viewed as a corrective to the historic injustice, a technology of securing redemptive transformation of an evil empire. The assumption of the apartheid system is that given the relative numerical smallness of the whites, unless they transform their relative numerical inferiority to political superiority, they will be overwhelmed by the black majority population. To them, democracy was a threat. So, apartheid is motivated by a thorough going antipathy for democracy (majority rule).'], ['Not surprisingly, the two systems are radically different from one another in consequences and the responses thereto. The consequence of apartheid was disenfranchisement of the majority black population and increasing securitization and terrorization of blackness. It led to sham political trials, tortures, arbitrary arrests, killings, and disappearances. In response came the long years of resistance by ANC, IFP, and several other political parties and liberation movements. The ultimate result of the resistance was the multiparty constitutional negotiation that eventually led to the adoption of a South African federal arrangement in an attempt to accommodate the nationalist demands of some of the provinces such as the KwaZulu-Natal and Western Cape for autonomy. The fact that South Africa saw its redemption from the legacy of apartheid in a federation that attends to diversity suggests how federalism, contrary to Dr Taye’ claim, was an antidote to apartheid rather than its institutionalization.'], ['The above shows that the comparison fails to take account of the radically different historical, political, constitutional, and demographic context of the two systems. The attempt to draw similarities based on the terms used, the assumptions alluded to, and the guiding principles mentioned are shown to be strained.'], ['The answer to this question can only be answered in nuances. There is a sense in which Ethiopia’s federalism can degenerate into apartheid unless the state is transformed in such a way that everyone is co-equally a citizen that counts and the governance is totally democratic. The multinational foundation on which the federation is established and the inherently democratizing nature of the self-determination clause in the constitution can help in this effort to transform the state from empire to a genuine democracy. With the deficits in citizenship and democracy, with the hierarchic relation among the political elites, seemingly justified in the role and order of contribution made to the final demise of the Derg regime—in which the TPLF is at the top, followed by the ANDM, further to be followed by the OPDO and the SPDM in that order—and the disregard for human rights and rule of law (which is further reinforced by securitizing all forms of dissent, especially from the Oromo, Somali, and more recently, the some sectors of the Amhara), the system is already showing the strains of an authoritarian system that is steadily unravelling. It might end up in apartheid unless more democracy is injected, the human rights deficits are overcome, and fundamental issues of state restructuring and citizenship are discussed and negotiated.\xa0 In the meantime, if the system looks like apartheid, it won’t be because it adopted federalism but rather because in resisting democracy, equal citizenship, human rights, and self-determination, it has subverted the federalist project only bringing back the residue of ethnicized/racialized hierarchy that evokes apartheid.'], ['To be sure, the Ethiopian federation can be faulted for a number of reasons.[xliii] However, it will not be faulted for responding to the challenge of diversity or even for recognizing secession.'], ['Interestingly, both Dr Taye and Prince Asfawosen seem to understand that there is no better alternative to federalism for Ethiopia. The insistence by Dr Taye on a “historically well-informed, truly pluralistic (ethnically, religiously or otherwise), unprejudiced, cooperative, compassionate, sincerely democratic and forward-looking federal governance”and the recognition by Dr Asfawossen of the ‘multiethnic’ nature of Ethiopia that necessitates the reassertion of federalist imperative, we hope, are not empty political gestures to the ethic of inclusion (sameness) and recognition (difference). Therefore, to dismiss the federal arrangement because of the reasons Dr Taye discussed is not only misdiagnosing the problem, misplacing the blame, and taking a misguided direction in the search for a solution; but also to throw the baby with the bathwater, and do so for the wrong reason. To undo the federal arrangement in Ethiopia now is tantamount to ‘turning the clock back.’ This can prove dangerous as, once the wheels of federalism have started to steer, one can try to stop them only at her/his own cost.'], ['\xa0'], ['\xa0'], ['In an attempt to discursively undermine EPRDF, there has emerged the tendency to denigrate the federal dispensation and its legitimate attempt to speak to the age old ‘Questions of Nationalities’. In dismissing it as apartheid, we might be dismissing its potential to transform Ethiopia on a multinational, multi-foundational, and multicultural basis. We might be depriving the generations of the opportunity to redeem the deficits of justice, citizenship, equality, and peace. With the rejection of federalism, we might be rejecting its potential to contain, if not defuse, conflicts. The rhetorical practice of the vocal opposition parties to denounce the Ethiopian federalism has impoverished the opposition’s political imagination to present an alternative mode of governance to the one posed by EPRDF. It has given the EPRDF a space in which it can co-opt many an ethnic entrepreneur and manipulate the ethnic agenda in a way it serves its purpose of continued rule. EPRDF’s ambiguous and complex posture vis-à-vis the federal system—as a revolutionary party subscribing to the ideals embodied in self-determination as a democratizing discipline on the one hand and as an organization that has evolved into a dominant party that identifies itself with the state on the other—makes its practice half-hearted at best and inconsistent at worst. Its strategic and ad hoc instrumentalization of the federalism to pursue, at times, contradictory objectives leaves people—citizen/subjects as well as political actors—thoroughly confused. Lack of constitutional fidelity on the part of the EPRDF (as the chief sponsor of the constitution) contributes further to the already fractured legitimacy it commands in the eyes of others. This erodes faith, the little faith there might have been, in the possibility of redemptive transformation.'], ['The result is the enhanced polarization over an already contested model of institutional design that responds to the underlying problems of the Ethiopian state. The polarizations manifest themselves in the stories one could tell about Ethiopian federal experiment. Having showed how the two dominant stories that are constantly in conflict invisibilize another story, a third story only the beneficiaries of this federalism could tell, I have tried to highlight how, in this third story, we see encapsulated a story of resistance and hope. This is because, understood in its constitutional-legal, historical, and political context, the federal dispensation still has the kernel that can speak to our past (via resistance encapsulated in the right and principle of self-determination) and the future (via equality-in-dignity inscribed in a multinational, multi-foundational, and multicultural federalism that helps to actualize both self-rule and shared rule). When so understood, it becomes easy why the Ethiopian federation—seen even in the light of terms used, the assumptions held, guiding principles posited, and ideological frame it is rooted in; and even with all its deficiencies—it is the antithesis of institutionalized hierarchy and inequality and, by extension, any form of apartheid.'], ['EPRDF’s increasing authoritarianism as a dominant political party and the government self-description as a vanguard of a developmental state might deepen the democratic and human rights deficits. This in turn might intensify TPLF’s dominance of co-opted elites in the coalition and in the wider country. The hierarchy among the elite that might be entrenched within EPRDF might deepen the social cleavage on ethno-national lines. This in time might lead to the regime’s degeneration into an outright apartheid. But this will be more the function of democratic deficit than the implementation of multinational federalism.'], ['To the ‘other’ peoples of Ethiopia (especially to the Oromo and the wider South) on whose behalf the federal dispensation was negotiated, federalism does not pose the threat of apartheid. It represents a hope deferred, a promised yet undelivered, a state yet untransformed, a past yet unredeemed. The ‘politics of recognition’ and the right of self-determination in the constitution offer the spectre of resistance in the face of oppression and of hope in the face of adversity. A retreat from it signals a return to ethnicized/racialized hierarchy akin to those in apartheid South Africa.'], ['*Tsegaye R Ararssa is a PhD Candidate at The University of Melbourne Law School. He can be reached at: tsegayer@gmail.com. '], ['\xa0July 2014'], ['[i] This was the subject of his piece in a recent issue of Addis Standard on 25 June 2014. The piece, ‘A Tale of Two Federations,’ is available online at: https://addisstandard.com/a-tale-of-two-federations/.\xa0 In an intriguing coincidence, two days before that, on June 23, 2014, in an interview with SBS Amharic on Human Rights, Dr Asfawossen Asrate had also made a similar remark, albeit only incidental to the subject of the discussion, saying that Ethiopia’s ‘ethnic federalism amounts to nothing but apartheid’.\xa0 The interview is available online at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2XAW4_Kdlp0.\xa0 While he insists that federalism is the only solution for ‘a multiethnic state’ such as Ethiopia, he strongly affirmed that ethnicity should not have a vital place in the Ethiopian federation. He also favored a form of federalism that we see in Germany or USA or India. Note that Germany and USA hardly qualify as multiethnic states. Note further that India actually is a multiethnic federation that, through state formation over the years, made the federal structure respond to and align with, if not give expression to, the ethno-linguistic cleavages.'], ['[ii] The fact that the federal arrangement (its taking account of the multinational configuration of the country), the devolution of original sovereignty to sub-state national entities (called nations, nationalities, and peoples), and the constitutional recognition of self-determination including secession (the famous Article 39) take the center stage in every political debate in election campaigns instantiates the contestation over federalism—and unfortunately so. The other issue mostly debated is the issue of state ownership of land.\xa0 These issues recur in the programs and campaign themes of political parties whose primary support base is the urban and regional Amharas. This includes the All-Amhara People’s Organization (AAPO), All-Ethiopian People’s Organization (AEPO), Ethiopian Democratic Party (EDP), Coalition for Unity and Democracy (CUD), Unity for Democracy and Justice (UDJ), and, more recently, the Semayawi [Blue] Party. The latter has even issued a proposal for revision of the constitution basically in the same line of stamping out the sovereignty of the sub-state nations (the Preamble, art 8), collective rights such as self-determination, especially secession (art 39), state and collective ownership of land (art 40(3)), and the provision regarding the working language of the federal government (art 5). The Semayawi Party insists on having a national language for Ethiopia, although they are short of saying how many or which language(s) should enjoy this status. The fact that it is constantly a subject of controversy at every election campaign over the years indicates that the federal idea is far from an uncontested idea. This is despite the hesitant concession among some of these parties that they do accept federalism for Ethiopia except its accent on ethno-national criteria of establishing constituent units. Given the history of uneven inter-group relations and the imperative of rectifying the unjust relations that emanate therefrom, the continued contestation is rather unfortunate.'], ['[iii] The end is addressing one of the two most salient political questions of the 20th century Ethiopia as articulated by the student movement of the 1960s, namely the historic ‘question of nationalities’ and the question of land. The 1974 Revolution (which can be summed up as a revolution conducted under the banner of ‘Land to the Tiller’) has led to land redistribution and abolished class hierarchy (via redistributive justice). The federalist revolution (if one can call it that) encapsulated in the current Ethiopian constitution was, at least aspirationally, meant to bring about ethno-cultural justice and abolish ethnicized/racialized status hierarchy (via self-determination). \xa0Seen in this light, its end was legitimate.'], ['[iv] Donald Levine, Greater Ethiopia: The Evolution of a Multi-ethnic Society. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1974. In this narrative one can include the stories told in the classics such as Herodotus, the legend of Solomon and Sheba (as recounted in the Kibre Negest), the myth of the medieval Christian King, whom Europe identified as the “Prester John of Indies’, the story of resistance to Italian colonialism (at Adwa and later in WWII) (that gave Ethiopia the image of a rare survivor of the colonial scramble for Africa) thereby becoming a ‘symbol of black/African independence’, etc.'], ['[v] Teshale Tibebu, The Making of Modern Ethiopia: 1896-1974. Trenton, NJ: The Red Sea Press, 1995.'], ['[vi] This is observed in the standard government line which claims that “the ‘national question’ is already answered.”'], ['[vii] This triad of force, religion, and tradition is encapsulated in the formal title of the Kings of Ethiopia: “Conquering Lion of the Tribe of Judah, Elect of God, King of Kings, ‘X’, Emperor of Ethiopia.” Conquest, birth from the members of the Solomonic/Davidic line, supposedly through Menelik I (genealogy, tradition), and formal anointing by the Abun, the Patriarch of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church as the elect of God are the traditional mode of rationalizing imperial power.'], ['[viii] This is clearly seen in the opening statement of the Federal Constitution (FDRE ) where the founders are stated as “We, the Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples of Ethiopia,…”.'], ['[ix] This term ‘Nation, Nationality, and People’ is awkwardly defined in art 39 (5) as a group of people with common culture, language, identity, psychological makeup, and inhabiting a contiguous territory. The fact that one definition is accorded to all three words as one term gives the impression that there is no difference of meaning among these three words although in practice, I have observed officials routinely make a distinction that privileges ‘nation’ over ‘nationality’ and\xa0 ‘nationality’ over ‘people’. This, of course, has no legal basis.'], ['[x] A cursory glance at the minutes of the Constituent Assembly and the Transitional council of Representatives (COR) suggests that the goal is also, among other things, undoing unjust historic relations.'], ['\xa0'], ['[xi] Most notable in this regard is Walelign Mekonnen’s famous article of 1969. See Walelign Mekonnen, ‘On the Question of Nationalities in Ethiopia’ 5 Struggle 2, Vol 5, No. 2 (17 Nov, 1969). See also Randi R Balsvik, Haileselassie’s Students. East Lansing, Michigan State University (1985), AAU Press, 2005. p.277.'], ['[xii] Merera Gudina, Ethiopia: Competing Ethnic Nationalisms and the Quest for Democracy, 1960-2000. Shaker Publishing, 2003.'], ['[xiii] This is the Constitution that the military regime issued in 1987, and it should not be confused with the Federal Democratic republic of Ethiopia (FDRE) constitution, which I refer to as ‘the constitution’ throughout.'], ['[xiv] This provision is quite clear, contrary to what critics say, the list of the criteria state delimitation includes far more than language: consent (free choice of the citizens), settlement pattern (which happens only in place and space—another meaning of geography, hence underscoring territorial considerations), and identity (which could be a subjective attitude—self-identification—also expressed through concrete/objective signifiers). The critics’ oft-repeated call for a territorial federalism seems to underestimate or ignore the demands of territorially concentrated collective entities for a form of self-determination that is also called ‘territorial autonomy’.'], ['[xv] This is striking as it tends to disregard the trend among multinational federations about the asymmetry among constituent units. See Rainer Baubock, United in Misunderstanding: Asymmetry in Multinational Federations (ICE Working Paper Series, No 26, [nd], where he observes that multinational federations are inherently asymmetrical.'], ['[xvi] The decisional power comprises the legislative, the political (appointment, and removal), and financial (budgetary) decisions.'], ['[xvii] The deliberative power comprises the representation and re-presentation of the electorate through parliamentary votes (for decisions) and voices (for influencing decisions and for airing the concerns and grievances of the public).'], ['[xviii] Scrutiny has to do with questioning, demanding reports, monitoring including through on-site visits), inquiry commissions, etc.'], ['[xix] Fasil Nahum, Constitution for a Nation of Nations: The Ethiopian Prospect. Lawrenceville, NJ: The Red Sea Press, 1997.'], ['[xx] The fact that the provisions dealing with the CCI are in the chapter meant to provide for the Judiciary is a testament to this fact.'], ['[xxi] Legal professionals often complained about the paucity of procedural rules for constitutional litigation from the moment of setting justice in motion to the moment of execution of judgement. Politicians on their part complain that the parliamentary rules of procedure have narrowed down the space for debate and discussion instigated by the opposition.'], ['[xxii] The states have added a fourth tier of courts, the social courts, first through legislations but later by making a space for them in their constitutions as well. Owing to the fact that they originated in the times of the Derg often serving as institutions of local control run by local political functionaries, their position as legitimate courts is disputed among lawyers.'], ['[xxiii] E.g. Adem Kassie Abebe, ‘Rule by law in Ethiopia: Rendering limits on government power nonsensical’ Working Paper, Centre of Governance and Human Rights, University of Cambridge, Research Group Seminar Series 1 (2012);'], ['[xxiv] See Jothie Rajah, Authoritarian Rule of Law: Legislation, Discourse, and Legitimacy in Singapore. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2012.'], ['[xxv] In 1998, the decentralization process was halted because of the war with Eritrea. After 2001, while States’ power was shrinking (and the ‘oversight’ work of the Ministry of Federal Affairs was becoming more like usurping their powers in various ways), there was a simultaneous movement in the direction of empowering local governments (i.e. Woredas), at least formally.'], ['[xxvi] The post-colonial African state, in the endeavour at nation-building, chose to ignore sub-state nationalism. They reduced these categories into ‘tribes’ and are reputed for advancing the motto, “kill the tribe to build the nation,” often associated with the late Samora Machel of Mozambique. The neglect of ethnicity has been characterized as leaving it in bondage by Ali Mazrui. See Mazrui, ‘Ethnicity in Bondage’ (1995), available at: https://www.mtholyoke.edu/acad/intrel/mazrui.htm, accessed in July 2014. Ethiopia broke this pattern in embracing a different kind of nation-and state-building, perhaps because of the state crisis that manifested the limit of a century old state nationalism.'], ['[xxvii] Some of these values have even found their way into the 1995 constitution.'], ['[xxviii] See Sarah Vaughan, Ethnicity and Power in Ethiopia. (PhD Thesis submitted to Edinburgh University, 2003), pp-27-39 for details. The thesis is available at: https://www.era.lib.ed.ac.uk/bitstream/1842/605/2/vaughanphd.pdf'], ['[xxix] The Transitional Period Charter of Ethiopia, Negarit Gazeta No. 1 (July 1991), art .1.'], ['[xxx] See generally Daniel Elazar, Exploring Federalism. Tuscaloosa, AL: University of Alabama Press, 1987.'], ['[xxxi] E.g. Ronald Watts, Comparing Federal Systems. (3rd ed). Queens, 2008.'], ['[xxxii] Of course, it is possible to tell more than one tale, about each—as we observe, for example, in the multiple tales we will tell about Ethiopia’s federal system in this piece.'], ['[xxxiii] See note 1 above.'], ['[xxxiv] The latest such reference is for example seen in Semahagn Gashu Abebe, The Last Post-Cold War Socialist Federation: Ethnicity, Ideology, and Democracy in Ethiopia. London: Ashgate, 2014.'], ['[xxxv] While there are those who, perhaps rightly, fear that the inter-ethnic tension (especially in border areas where there are competition over resources, power, opportunities, rival narratives of history, and identity) may lead to political violence such as genocide, there is also a disconcertingly far-fetched and unfounded concern among some that the state is encouraging a form of genocide in the guise of Ethiopian federalism. The EPRDF on its part claims, especially since 2005, that the opposition parties are hate-mongering forces of genocide. In the course of an election debate in 2005, the EPRDF even went as far as referring to them as Interahamwe invoking the group involved in the Rwandese genocide. The strategies of mutual de-legitimization have led to the rhetorical undermining of the ‘virtues’ of federalism.'], ['[xxxvi] Conti Rossini is reported to have said this phrase (“une museo di popoli”) about Ethiopia, cited in Donald Levine, Greater Ethiopia (1974), pp 19-20.'], ['[xxxvii] The story of these people (Ethiopia’s ‘others’) is told ethnographically through more recent, if unconventional, publications such as those by Wendy James and Donald Donham (eds), The Southern Marches of Imperial Ethiopia (Athens, OH: Ohio University Press, 1985 (2002)),Donald Donham, Marxist Modern: An Ethnographic History of the Ethiopian Revolution. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1999; John Markakis, Ethiopia: The Last Two Frontiers. New York: James Currey/Boydel\xa0 & Brewer(2011); etc'], ['[xxxviii] In characterizing it as such, I borrowed the term ‘state narrative’ from Jothie Rajah, Authoritarian Rule of Law: Legislation, Discourse, and Legitimacy in Singapore. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2012, ch 1.'], ['[xxxix] See the Preamble of [introduction to?] to 1931 Constitution written by Tekle-Hawariat Tekle-Mariam to see the legally significant position of these categories. This is also elaborated further in the assimilationist strategies proposed by Tedla Haile, later Haileselassie’s Minister of education until the start of the Ethio-Italian war of 1935-1941.'], ['[xl] Ali Mazrui, “Ethnicity in Bondage” (1995), n.20 above.'], ['[xli] Edward Hicks, ‘The Peaceable Kingdom’ (a painting inspired by the text of Isaiah 11: 6-9). The text of Isaiah 11:6-9 reads as follows:'], ['“The wolf will live with the lamb, the leopard will lie down with the goat, the calf'], ['and the lion and the yearling together; and a little child will lead them. The cow'], ['will feed with the bear, their young will lie down together, and the lion will eat'], ['straw like the ox. The infant will play near the hole of the cobra, and the young'], ['child puts his hand into the viper’s nest. They will neither harm nor destroy on all'], ['my holy mountain, for the earth will be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the'], ['waters cover the sea.”(See Holy Bible, NIV, 1978).'], ['[xlii] Mahmood Mamdani, Citizen and Subject: Contemporary Africa and the Legacy of Colonialism. \xa0Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1996.'], ['[xliii] For example, in design, the fact that it has not explicitly provided for an institution of intergovernmental relations; the predominantly political interpretation of the constitution; the fact that it fell short of making all Ethiopian languages the co-equal working language of the federal government (thereby saddling us with the residue of hierarchy among languages); the absence of minoritarian institutions (because the HOF mirrored the majoritarianism of the Lower House, HPR); the fact that the principle of federal supremacy (preponderance of federal laws over state laws) is not explicitly recognized; the uncertainty about the position of international treaties in the hierarchy of laws in the country; the failure to provide for a federal capital territory; the ambiguity of justiciability of the human rights chapter (compounded by the judiciary’s ambiguous position vis-à-vis constitutional human rights); the neglect of the Proportional Representation system of election as befits a multinational federation; the unclarity on the matter of executive power sharing as befits a country of competing nationalisms that invite the consociation imperative; the unclarity about the execution of the ‘judgements’ of the HOF; the lack of definition for\xa0 what constitutes ‘minority nationalities’; on the propriety of the choice of parliamentary system as opposed to presidential system; on the role of the speaker of the HOF, and/or the President in times of constitutional crisis after the dissolution of the Parliament; the constitutional silence on the dissolution of the HoF; the silence on the rules that constrain the military in times of emergency; silence on the mode of succession when the incumbent Prime Minister falls ill for a prolonged period of time (as happened in 2012) or has died; etc., can be raised as some of the areas that might need some serious thinking and some tweaking. The practice of EPRDF might be faulted on many more accounts that can go longer than the list above. The lack of democratic opening (some scholars call it the incomplete transition to democracy), the neglect of human rights, the weakening of democratic institutions (institutions of representation such as Parliament, the HOF, and the Electoral Board; institutions of accountability such as the courts, anti-corruption, Auditor General; and institutions of human rights such as the human rights commission and the ombudsman; institutions of voice such as the media and civil society organizations; etc); the increasing recentralization of power through legislative acts (such as proclamation 85/1996; proclamation 250 and 251/2001; proclamation 359/2001; etc) and other policy documents; the increased concentration of power in the executive such as the security and intelligence institutions, etc.'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'July 25, 2014', 'Header': 'When ‘Fighters of Poverty’ get it wrong', 'news_paragraphs': [['Taye Negussie (PhD) '], ['\xa0In a recent piece to Project Syndicate, ‘Why Jeffrey Sachs Matters’, the renowned Microsoft founder Bill Gates, reacted disapprovingly to Bonnos’s calling of the noted economist Jeffrey Sachs\xa0 “the squeaky wheel that roars” and Nina Munk’s negative appraisal of Sachs’s brain-child, the Millennium Villages Project (MVP) in her book The Idealist Vanity Fair. But, far from pleasing Jeffrey Sachs, Bill Gates’s piece rather seemed to invoke anger in him as apparent in his retaliatory piece, “Why Bill Gates Gets It Wrong”.'], ['But we need to remember that apart from this tug of words between Jeffrey Sachs and Bill Gates, at deeper level there exists much more to draw these two world-class personalities even closer together. For one thing, both personalities could be viewed as the icons of the hegemonic Anglo-Saxon, ‘Darwinian-Capitalism’; for another, probably with the motive of rendering a little human face to otherwise bestial, ‘man-eat-man’ capitalism, both have given themselves the ‘messianic mission’ of ‘fighters of poverty’ \xa0in Africa. But, whether this motif is truly a humanistic one or to affirm the perfect working of the hegemonic capitalist system by using Africa as a live laboratory remains open to questions.'], ['At the heart of the dispute lies mainly Sachs’s 120 million dollar Millennium Villages Project (MVP) that he conceived to “demonstrate” to the world how to “lift African villages out of poverty through a massive infusion of targeted assistance”.'], ['The same old wine in a new bottle '], ['Anyone fairly familiar with the literature of African development knows all too well that the idea of intensive interventions in certain selected areas with the purpose of bringing an overall development, as claimed by MVP, is never at all new. We already know it by its familiar name, Holistic or Integrated Development Approach that surfaced since around the mid-1970s.'], ['However, in later years, this strategy, too, like many of its predecessors fated a total failure. Many scholars attribute the complex nature of the strategy that was beyond the capability and the organizational readiness of the beneficiary communities to be the major factor for its failure.'], ['Surprisingly enough, compared with Sachs’s MVP, even the failed Holistic Approach appears to be, in some respect, far more superior, in that, at least in principle, it didn’t view the communities as passive foreign aid recipients, or analogically speaking, not as ‘poverty patients’ who surrendered their chance of recovery to the mercy of a highly specialized lonely ‘poverty doctor’; in the Holistic Approach, the communities were supposed to be active participants and even contributors to the projects; at best, the approach wasn’t meant to be an adventurous show of vanity to demonstrate to others how to do poverty alleviation.'], ['The bullet that went astray '], ['While I strongly concur with Bill Gates’s humble opinion of making mistakes in the course of doing some worthwhile activity and not to be discouraged by them, nevertheless, I found his some other commentaries to be hollow and full of contradictions.'], ['To be sure, though he rebuked Nina Munk for defaming Jaffrey Sachs, \xa0eventually he can’t help but concur with her overall appraisal of the MVP as something that “so far not lived up to Sachs’s vision”. As he put it, “based on what Munk reports about the MVP, I am not about to throw stones.” Then, Bill Gates concludes “though he’s one of the world’s smartest economists, but in the villages Munk profiled, Sachs seems to be wearing blinders.”'], ['According to Bill Gates, one of the stumbling blocks in the MVP lies in the selection of ‘wrong localities’ – localities with “all kinds of problems – from drought to political unrest”. Definitely, this is a self-defeating argument that has entirely denied the very cause that has called for such type of intervention in the first place. If it wasn’t for assisting those communities wallowing in most adverse situation, then, was it there to cheer up those living in fairly comfortable situation? Sadly, this implies that what Bill Gates has been highly preoccupied with is not so much with bringing an ease to the suffering of the communities as the conspicuous display of the presumed achievement of the aid project.'], ['Furthermore, Bill Gates lists a number of concerns ranging from the very assumption of the MVP to what he thought was a proper area of competence that Sachs would rather concentrate on – apparently the reasons that Bill Gates turned down Sachs’s request of fund for the MVPs.'], ['But these concerns of Bill Gates are not, at best, more than a laundry list of abstract economic indicators – remotely related to the actual living realities of the people – the area which Jeffrey Sachs will be least suspected to be oblivious of.'], ['Of all, a bit startling concern of Bill Gates is that which regards the feasibility of measuring progress. In this respect, he questions, “how feasible it was to measure progress, given the likelihood that people from the surrounding areas would stream into their villages once the MVP aid started flowing.”'], ['Evidently, this is an absurd and quite misplaced concern given the African well-developed and elaborate notion of territoriality and centuries-old sentimental attachment that they have to their localities. Minimally, a locality in African context is not some fluid, temporal camping site that one swamps for and abandons in search of some trivial foreign aid, even with those mobile pastoral communities.'], ['Retreat to the vanity of ‘whiteboard economics’'], ['With regard to Jeffrey Sachs’s piece, it just suffices to say it’s quite disappointing and totally unbecoming of him. His defensive argument has been filled with so much fallacies that one can think of. To mention few, the fallacy of ad hominem argument (attacking the person rather than ideas) as exemplified in his belittling of Munk’s professional profile instead of showing what she errs; the assertion of epistemological vanity, that the mathematical model of ‘whiteboard economics’ is the sole means towards discovering truth; the fallacy of double-standard, while disputing Munk’s findings on the ground of short-duration visit to project site, inviting others to do so (even with shorter-duration) in order to dispute her findings; the justification of project sustainability on mere uncritical replication of his project model by dishonest government officials; excessive reliance on technical knowledge as evident in his assertion that his project was helped by the best African professionals.'], ['To conclude, in my view a grass-root poverty alleviation initiative such as the MVP, over and above anything else, should strive to: take constructive lessons from similar past approach; aside technical knowledge, to have the gut to trust the wisdom and capability of grass-root communities; instead of focusing on symptoms, to trace and resolve the root of poverty in the wider political, social, cultural and institutional framework of the society; rather than letting communities depend on temporal foreign hand-out, to enable and empower them to help, help themselves using their own human potential and local resources so that in the end they would take their own destiny into their own hands.'], ['The Writer can be reached at: tayesosa@yahoo.com'], ['\xa0'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'June 25, 2014', 'Header': 'A tale of two federations', 'news_paragraphs': [['Taye Negussie (PhD)'], ['Following the general election of 1948, the Afrikaners dominated National Party officially legislated a racially segregated system of government–racial federations–in South Africa, the infamous apartheid system that came to an end in 1994.'], ['The year that saw the coming to an end of the racial federations in South Africa, in a manner of curious coincidence, heralded the birth of another fairly similar form of ethnically segregated system of government–ethnic federations – in Ethiopia. '], ['The main argument of this piece is that there are some striking parallels–at least in basic assumptions and guiding ideological framework – between the racial federations of the defunct South African apartheid system and the current ethnic federations in Ethiopia.'], ['And, the affinity encompasses so many dimensions.\xa0 For starters, the term “apartheid”–an \xa0Afrikaans’ word meaning “the state of being apart”, or “apart-hood”\xa0 used to segregate races in South Africa–is semantically analogous to that of the Amharic word “Killil” which also literally means “apart-hood” or a “restricted area” as is being employed to designate the ethnic-based regional states.'], ['Secondly, the rationale of the National Party for establishing a state of racial federations was that South Africa did not comprise a single nation, instead it was made up of four distinct racial groups: “white”, “black”, “colored” and “Indian”. And, the government divided these groups into 13 “nations” or “racial federations”.\xa0 The “black” group alone was divided into ten ethnic-based self-governing homelands called Bantustans destined with the prospect of becoming a separate nation-state.'], ['Similarly, in legislating the constitution the ruling Ethiopian People Democratic Front (EPRDF) reasoned that Ethiopia is not a single nation but rather an entity (though not defined clearly) that comprises ostensibly self-contained numerous “nations, nationalities and peoples”.'], ['Subsequently, all these “nations, nationalities and peoples” were organized into 9 “autonomous” regional states and two city governments; whereupon, each regional state being endowed with its own respective constitution and flag, as their prospective nationhood is legislated in Article 39 of the Ethiopian constitution which promulgates the “unconditional right of every nation, nationality and people to self-determination, including the right to session”.'], ['Thus, the assumption and mode of organization underlying South African apartheid–the homeland system –as well, strongly resonates with the assumption and regional structuring of Ethiopia’s ethnic-based federation.'], ['Thirdly, the South African government attempted to justify apartheid on the ground that the different races in South Africa needed to be separated for the process of integration and the subsequent racial assimilation had brought about a “loss of racial identity” and the disempowerment of the Afrikaners in the political and economic sphere. Hence, racial apartness was the pivotal political and legal doctrine of apartheid.'], ['In similar vein, the ideological rhetoric of ethnic federalism in Ethiopia has apparently been rooted in the belief that an integrated and unitary Ethiopian state formed out of the “forced” incorporation of otherwise “autonomous” ethnic entities had resulted in the “loss of cultural identity” and disempowerment on the part of the oppressed “nation, nationalities and peoples” in the larger political and economic sphere. Hence, the politics of “ethnic differences” and “cultural identity” has constituted the core principle of Ethiopia’s ethnic federation.'], ['Fourth, in apartheid South Africa, sports like football and many other segregation practices were used to institutionalize and instill the racial mentality among the population; likewise, in today’s Ethiopia various sport games such as the annual All Ethiopian Sports Game, the festival of “nation, nationalities and people’s” day, insistent glorification of ethnocentrism and the practice of, if you will, ethnocracy (assigning people to formal positions on the basis of their ethnicity rather than their ability) and some other subtle strategies have been widely used to implant ethnic mentality amongst the populace.'], ['Aside from these stark similarities, nevertheless, there appears to be some subtle divergences between South African racial federation and the Ethiopian ethnic federation with regard to their official approaches of segregation. Yet, ultimately the effects arising out of these seemingly divergent approaches remain the same.'], ['For instance, while there was a formalized racial classification in South Africa that introduced an identity card for all persons specifying their racial group, in the case of Ethiopia, there has been no such formal law to formalize ethnic classification; instead, while issuing a residential identity card, it seems implicitly imperative for each resident to specify his/her “nation, nationality and people”– effectively an ethnic identity – on the identity card.'], ['Furthermore, while apartheid South Africa enacted and enforced laws that put an end to mixed racial settlements, to the contrary, the Ethiopian law provides citizens with the right to live and work anywhere of their choice. Yet, despite the legal provision, the intolerable sense of alienation and feeling of second-class citizen that many practically go through while living in “un-destined” areas would impel them to relocate either to their “destined” areas or the ethnically undetermined Addis Ababa city; hence, it comes as no surprise to see Addis Ababa today chocking with ever exploding population and settlement congestion, officially unacknowledged though.'], ['Finally, when South African apartheid regime faced strong opposition and resistance, the government was compelled to pass a hugely repressive anti-communist law (before the ascendance of African National Congress (ANC), dissenters against the system of racial segregation were then labeled “communists”). Here too, the similarity is quite evident in that the recent Ethiopia’s infamous “anti-terrorist law” which critics regard as a manipulative law that targets dissenting voices against the regime’s policies may be equated with that of the South African\xa0 “anti-communist law”, while the label of “communists” to that of “terrorists”.'], ['Thus, given all these momentous parallels between the South African racial federations–racial apartheid –and Ethiopia’s ethnic federation – though with some subtle differences in form rather than essence – it may not, therefore, be quite an exaggeration to consider Ethiopia’s ethnic federalism a semblance of ‘ethnic apartheid’, especially given that it is now quite common to apply the term ‘apartheid’ to every kind of segregation established by state authority based on certain ideological prejudices.'], ['Despite this remarkable symmetry between Ethiopia’s ethnic federalism and once an outcast and the world’s pariah state of South African apartheid system, yet neither many of the citizens themselves nor the rest of the world do seem to have noticed the affinity between the two political systems, probably thinking that an apartheid system is applicable only to a matter of segregation based on skin-color differential.'], ['The recent public grievances allegedly against a newly proposed ‘Master Plan for Addis Ababa and Oromia special Zone’ \xa0and \xa0the government’s harsh reactions, among others, could be viewed as a tell-tale sign of the inherent weakness and danger associated with Ethiopia’s ethnic federalism. The nature of the incidences clearly shows that it’s far more than a mere glitch in otherwise just political system; it betokens \xa0the underlying fault with a sinisterly motivated ethnic federation–an affirmation that what Ethiopia really needs is historically well-informed, truly pluralistic (ethnically, religiously or otherwise), unprejudiced, cooperative, compassionate, sincerely democratic and forward-looking federal governance.'], ['The Writer can be reached at: tayesosa@yahoo.com '], ['\xa0'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'May 13, 2014', 'Header': 'The Shaky premise of authoritarianism', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], [''], ['Taye Negussie (PhD) '], ['\xa0'], ['Since we ordinarily associate authoritarianism with a political system bent on subjugating and repressing its subjects – so conceived rightly – and, as such, we tend to overlook as it reigns in a number of other human institutions. \xa0'], ['\xa0'], ['As a matter of fact, the abusive parenting in family life, exploitative economic relations, the imposing and alienating carrot-and stick management system, the behavioral educational scheme aspiring to shape and remold humans could all be viewed as authoritarian in every sense of the term. \xa0\xa0\xa0'], [''], [''], ['The underlying premise that binds all authoritarian systems together apparently lies in the assumption of determinism – a doctrine which holds that human action is not based on one’s free-will, but is rather a consequence of the working of such forces as external physical conditions and circumstances beyond the control of the individual.'], ['\xa0'], ['The deterministic view utterly disregards individual’s capacity to take an independent stance toward any conditions whatsoever; it denies the power\xa0or\xa0ability\xa0of the individual human mind to choose a course of action or make a decision without being subject to restraints imposed by seemingly omnipotent external forces.'], ['\xa0'], ['The question is: is this indeed a valid and credible assumption reflective of the true and real human nature as we know it? Definitely, this compels us to embark on a quick revisit of the historical context that yielded the deterministic assumption in its modern version.'], ['\xa0'], ['The advent of deterministic assumption as concerns modern authoritarian institutions can be traced to the conception of behavioral sciences in the 17th and 18th centuries. As we might be well aware of, these centuries were the period that heralded the ‘fad of science’ as the utmost credible source of human knowledge. So, the leading exponents in these fields of enquiry, then, had to earnestly argue and show that their intellectual enquiries indeed meet the requisite criteria of science so as to earn a seat in the emerging highly venerated ‘club of sciences’. '], ['\xa0'], ['One of the overriding legitimation criterions to the status of science was the claim – modeled after natural sciences – that the operation of phenomena in the claimant line of inquiry strictly adheres to the presumed mechanistic laws of natural order and predictability. '], ['\xa0'], ['Thus, the realist philosophers of the 17th and 18th centuries who speculated about human behavior had to superimpose the assumption of mechanistic law on human mind which subsequently led to the realization of behavioral sciences. '], ['\xa0'], ['However, the mechanistic assumption on mind was refuted from the outset by humanist philosophers arguing that what influences human actions is not the working of a stable physical mind but rather a fleeting human consciousness. '], ['\xa0'], ['The humanist view now appears to be vindicated by insights gleaned from, among others, uncertainty principle and chaos theory in the field of quantum physics that apparently challenged the conventional view of the ‘fundamental law of cause and effect’. '], ['\xa0'], ['Subsequently, the classical debate on human consciousness or free will once again has reinvigorated anew. In the ongoing current debate, the proponents of free-will hold that mental phenomena being anarchistic by nature – as also observed even in physical phenomena by the aforementioned state-of-the-art scientific theories – could not be patterned into mechanistic physical law. The premise of this argument lies in the recognition of the element of spontaneity in the human mind that operates outside any possible scientific law. '], ['\xa0'], ['In passing, this reminds us an often-quoted maxim by the noted French philosopher Michel Foucault, “Don’t ask me who I am and to remain the same.”'], ['\xa0'], ['Now many intellectuals have interpreted this spontaneity to be free will, or at least a measure of self-determination that people feel themselves to possess and by which they make moral judgments – an affirmation of the passionately-held view of the classical advocates for human freedom, liberation and democratic governance.\xa0 '], ['\xa0'], ['The notion of free-will or choice is also a prominent theme that has predominated a great deal of writing in the now rising field of existentialism. In the view of most existentialists, humanity’s primary distinction is the freedom to choose. Existentialists have held that human beings do not have a fixed nature, or essence, as other animals and plants do; each human being makes choices that create his or her own nature. '], ['\xa0'], ['According to the renowned psychiatrist Victor E. Frankl, choice is\xa0 central to human existence, and it is inescapable; even the refusal to choose is a choice. Of course, freedom of choice ought to be accompanied by real sense of commitment and responsibility. When individuals choose freely their own pathway, Frankl argues, they must accept the responsibility and consequence of following their freely chosen pathway wherever it leads.'], ['\xa0'], ['From the above arguments, I guess, one would well discern the serious limitations compounding the assumption of the deterministic doctrine – imposing an inevitability on a mental phenomenon which is too uncertain, arbitrary and fleeting – that has informed and guided the operation of, sadly enough, not less number of human institutions which are both good as well as ill-intentioned ones. \xa0\xa0\xa0'], ['Obviously, some skeptics might dismiss the notion of free-will on the ground of lower level education, precarious economic condition, or racial, ethnic, religious and gender prejudices to deny people the freedom to choose their own course of actions. \xa0'], ['\xa0'], ['However, a closer look into the hitherto existing history of human struggle – the anti-slavery movement, the various revolutions to topple archaic socio-political systems, the liberation war against colonialism, the protest and the struggle against despotic rulers, fascism, communism, the ongoing gender, minority and environmental movements – would certainly affirm to be a struggle between those who strive to subjugate and control versus those who resist or stand up against any external manipulation and domination on their thoughts and actions. \xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0'], ['\xa0'], ['One of the most common strategies that repressive institutions deploy to prevail over the minds of others is usually by infusing ‘herd-mentality’ that stifles independent thought and free-will action. But this ‘collective illusion’ is usually an ephemeral phenomenon that would dissipate as people become more clear-headed and self-conscious. \xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0'], ['\xa0\xa0\xa0'], ['In conclusion, let me quote once again Victor E. Frankl by way of reaffirming the central thesis of the present piece: “A human being is not one thing among others; things determine each other, but man is ultimately self-determining; what he becomes….he has made out of himself.” '], ['\xa0'], ['This maxim speaks so loudly about the fact that any attempt to dominate and control others is, at best, a futile exercise that is bound to end as soon as people win back their natural capacity for independent thought and free-will moral actions. \xa0\xa0\xa0'], ['The writer can be reached at tayesosa@yahoo.com'], ['\xa0'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}]
[{'Date': 'April 22, 2014', 'Header': 'A ‘Democratic Front’ at odds with democracy', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], [''], ['Taye Negussie (PhD)'], ['Few rhetoric terms have so pervaded as the term democracy in the political discourse of the Ethiopian People Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF) that controls the Ethiopian government since 1991. Far too often, the front proclaims that the very cause that drove it into armed liberation struggle was its firm resolve to carry through the much repressed Ethiopian people into a democratic system where freedom, justice, equality and the right to self-rule will unconditionally and fully prevail. \xa0'], [''], [''], ['Hence, EPRDF’s ascendance to power in 1991 was regarded in some quarters as a triumph of democracy. This was more so when the constitution ratified in 1995, under its auspices, explicitly pronounced the dawn of a democratic Ethiopian state founded on the “rule of law”, and that fully respects “individual and people’s fundamental freedom and rights”. '], ['This said, however, two decades down the road one may rightly ask as to what extent these lofty promises have really been delivered to the people. '], ['To the surprise of many, all recent political moves and trends not only testify the promises to remain unfulfilled, far worse than that, they point out to the grim reality of the EPRDF regime well nigh to slip into a state no less authoritarian than the one it toppled – as has been argued in many previous articles published in this magazine.'], ['This can be further evidenced by the damning reports on the country’s poor record on human rights and democracy frequently released by international human rights and advocacy groups whom the regime often ridicules as the devil advocates of “neo-liberalism”.\xa0 '], ['Consider the recently released 2013 Human Rights Reports by the US Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, which reported Ethiopia’s human rights problems as comprising, among others, arbitrary killings, allegations of torture, beating, abuse, and mistreatment of detainees by security forces; reports of harsh and, at times, life-threatening prison conditions; arbitrary arrest and detention; detention without charge and lengthy pretrial detention; a weak, overburdened judiciary subject to political influence; infringement on citizens’ privacy rights, including illegal searches; allegations of abuses in the implementation of the government’s “villagization” program; restrictions on academic freedom, freedom of assembly, association, and movement; alleged interference in religious affairs; limits on citizens’ ability to change their government; police, administrative, and judicial corruption, and the problem of immunity.\xa0 '], ['The quick descend to authoritarianism '], ['Many political commentators trace the turning point in the regime’s open move to authoritarianism to the 2005 infamous national election. '], ['A general overview of events in the post-2005 election period vividly reveal two major trends: First, the many draconian laws and manipulative government measures which increasingly diminished individual freedom and basic democratic rights ultimately effecting the multiplication of largely disillusioned, alienated, disempowered and subservient individual subjects. Second, the same laws and administrative measures having substantively enhanced the power and capacity of the security apparatus to scrutinize and control over the activities and affairs of citizens by providing the legal and moral framework as well as the resources needed to carry out the job.'], ['Thus, it will not be hard to estimate the net effect of these complimentary political processes yielding to the classic “police state”. '], ['Normalizing and naturalizing authoritarianism '], ['Apparently, with the purpose of normalizing and naturalizing authoritarianism, the regime has now embarked on such puzzling ideologies of developmental statism and dominant party system, both of which contravene the essence and spirit of the largely democratic constitution. '], ['The ideology of Developmental statism seems to be highly appealing to authoritarian states for it readily entitles them a license to undermine the highly-cherished democratic values with the excuse of waging rapid economic growth. Subsequently, holding high the agenda of economic growth, EPRDF has endeavored to rationalize authoritarianism by portraying democracy as mere luxury and secondary issue that should come only after the achievement of some economic growth – ironically, a u-turn from what was proclaimed to be the front’s initial cause for the struggle. '], ['Likewise, the rhetoric of a single dominant party system – a de facto liquidation of the constitutionally guaranteed multi-party system – largely appears to be yet another pretext for implanting authoritarianism. \xa0'], ['The prime rationale underpinning EPRDF’s claim to the status of a dominant party is ostensibly its long and unrivalled election triumph in many consecutive election rounds that enabled it to stay in power for relatively longer period. The trick with this claim evidently lies in the portrayal of seemingly fair and unbiased election environment that equally favors all competing parties. To the contrary, however, the fact of the matter is that all those government institutions and organs directly or indirectly involved in executing the election process implicitly or explicitly fall under the influence of EPRDF. '], ['The episode of the 2010 general election that allegedly gave EPRDF a sweeping victory to the tune of wining more than 96 per cent of the seats of the House of Peoples’ Representatives – that \xa0put it at par with the notorious communist party of North Korea – could serve as an illustrative example\xa0 of the rather unhealthy election environment. \xa0\xa0'], ['Subjects of the government or citizens of the country?'], ['More than anything else, quite a telling signifier for the EPRDF regime to slide into cold and naked authoritarianism is its recent campaign to set up a military prototype structure – the “development army”– that forces each and every individual citizen to be organized into “five-to-one” social control groups that subtly deprive citizens freedom of consciousness, thought and personal dignity.'], ['In fact, history well informs us that this was a mind-body controlling device widely employed by those classical totalitarian regimes in their attempt to make all aspects of individual life absolutely subordinate to the state. \xa0'], ['As is often the case, the sweetening rhetoric for imposing this repressive strategy is purportedly the government’s desire for enhancing the productivity and quality of the tasks and activities that individual citizens regularly engage in. \xa0'], ['Needless to say, the simple fact that the strategy has been imposed from the top grossly packaged in a straight-jacket form without any scant attention to discrepancies in nature and type of tasks and activities people engage in will make it highly suspect to be an ideologically motivated ploy to transform citizens to passive subjects of the government. '], ['In closing, what now seems to be grossly overlooked with the EPRDF leadership is the fact that the reproduction of subjugated, disempowered, alienated, and subservient herds of individuals will not make the government any stronger. Instead, the surest way towards establishing strong government and strong nation is by way of making some allowance for the real functioning of a true and vibrant democracy that reproduces millions of well-informed, critical, confident, responsible and independent citizens who resolutely stand for truth, justice, freedom and prosperity. \xa0'], ['The writer can be reached at tayesosa@yahoo.com \xa0'], ['\xa0'], ['\xa0'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'March 21, 2014', 'Header': 'Defending Ethiopia’s Developmental Statism: Moralizing immorality', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], [''], ['Taye Negussie (PhD)'], ['Recently, this magazine has been publishing a series of articles debating against and for developmental statism that the government in Ethiopia claims is now its leading political and economic ideology. I assume in the Ethiopian media context such critical engagement on the same magazine between those who subscribe to clashing views is quite a rare move that needs to be commended and further encouraged. '], ['In the face of this ongoing debate there needs to be a separate work that commits itself to reviewing the diverse viewpoints of the preceding articles so as to keep track of the direction of the discussion, which I hope will be done on some latter date. However, in this edition, this piece seeks to advance its own reflection on the article, “Ethiopia’s Developmental Statism: Dotted by pitfalls but functional”, published in February on Vol. 4.\xa0 No. 36 of this magazine. The article has put forward some rather odd arguments apparently with the intent to defend, at great length, the immoral practices that may arise with the reign of developmental statismin some countries including Ethiopia.\xa0 \xa0'], [''], [''], ['In the earlier sections, the article attempts to defend the indictment of excessive political interference, weak institutional and technical capabilities as marking the Ethiopian version of developmental statism. \xa0Nevertheless, in its defense the article seems to offer some ambivalent and contradictory arguments. For starters, while seemingly acknowledging the problem of “loyalty and political affiliation” as “endless pitfalls”, a significant part of the article was entirely committed to justifying and defending the same “endless pitfalls”. \xa0\xa0\xa0'], ['Rationalizing political coaching and incompetency'], ['In its positive evaluation of political interference and coaching, the article cites the Brazilian experience saying: “a remarkably unprecedented socio-economic development has coincided with massive politicization of the bureaucracy”; then, by analogy, implying it is okay if Ethiopia goes down that lane, too. '], ['Here, the logical and empirical fallacies are quite evident. First and foremost, the premise that technical and specialized institutions perform better when guided and coached by incompetent political loyalist is prima facie, self-defeating and questionable premise that doesn’t beg any labor for empirical proof.\xa0 So, the reference in the article that “empirical evidences from South Asia, Latin America and some African countries…” and the misappropriation of the notion of embeddedness and informal relationships – which actually stand for non-formalized relationships among peer organizational actors – to vindicate the appointment of inept loyalists and cadres, is at best a futile exercise that never convinces any astute reader. '], ['Granted that by some chance non-merit based institutional working has been followed by some “miraculous economic development”, even then, this doesn’t warrant the conclusion that they are causally interlinked. The presumption of a causal relationship between two phenomena only because one preceded the other in time without any other sufficient reason commits the fallacy of questionable cause (after this, therefore because of this).\xa0\xa0 \xa0'], ['Certainly, asserting a causal relationship between political coaching and economic growth in a given country essentially demands a deep and exhaustive investigation of the effects of many other intervening variables or factors, inter alia, general attitude towards the political entity, integrity and wisdom of political leaders, legal framework, generalized level of trust, social cohesion and integration, organizational management and technical capacity, global political and economic circumstances. '], ['By the same token, the supposition that what has worked in Brazil must also be true to Ethiopia commits ‘the fallacy of analogy’. The difference between the two countries – in terms of historical, political, economic and socio-cultural framework may be more significant than the similarities; therefore, the conclusion drawn from the one may not necessarily apply to the other.\xa0 '], ['On the other hand, given the daily grim realities evident in the provision of basic public and other services, the argument that attempts to attribute the alleged Ethiopia’s phenomenal economic growth to the ‘efficient’ working of a rather crippled governmental institutions would amount to an insult to readers’ intelligence. It suffices to have a glimpse at 2013 Failed States Index by the United States Think-thank Fund for Peace – which annually releases a report on the level of social, economic and political performances for more than 170 countries – that has placed Ethiopia\xa0 as the 19th failed state within the top “Alert” category of thirty-five failed states led by Somalia. '], ['\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0 Normalizing rent-seeking and corruption\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0\xa0 '], ['Under the subtitle, ‘The tale of two thieves: Suharto and Mobuto” the article argues that although both Suharto of Indonesia and Mobuto of Zaire “ripped off” their countries’ resources, “ranking high at world corruption scale”, the consequences of the plunder significantly diverged: “while Mobutu’s Zaire failed miserably, Suharto’s Indonesia emerged to be one of the fastest growing economies in the world”; and the “secret behind” the divergence “… lies at the way rent-seeking and corruption were organized.” The article also invokes such paradoxical expression as “growth-enhancing rent seeking actions”. '], ['By any measure, this is but a weird argument which bluntly states that “rent-seeking and corruption” are not per se a problem; the problem instead lies in “the way” they are “organized”. This exemplifies how much ideological outlooks at times may impair our judgment of right and wrong, and obliterate our common sense view of decency and justice. '], ['I know of no society that would say to its members: ‘it’s alright that you steal but be aware of its usage!’ Without a doubt, in many societies theft is always prima facie unethical, illegal and unjust act that goes against the law, the moral standards and the spirit of justice and fairness. Note that I consider here corruption and rent-seeking as white collar theft. '], ['To our surprise, while exalting Suharto’s Indonesia, the writer seems to have no idea or else has completely forgotten the human tragedy that claimed thousands of lives, and the social and economic chaos which apparently reversed Indonesia’s economy back to square one, that subsequently surfaced following the collapse of Suharto’s regime – apparently owing to his fatal policy and practices of patrimonialism, chronism, and corruption that created a huge wealth gap between ethnic Chinese Indonesians and the rest. '], ['All in all, the implication of the whole reading of the article is that: we should only and only be concerned with how to achieve the goal of economic growth in the shortest time possible to better fare in the ‘catch-up’ game – whether be it through unethical, immoral or illegal means –seemingly in confirmation of the odd parable, ‘the end justifies the means’. Alas, this argument has apparently lost sight of the fact that economic growth –in and of itself – is not an end; rather, it’s just a means towards the realization of the ultimate objective of a prosperous, just, ethical, humane and reasonably fulfilled society. Thus, in such a case any means that we opt to all along is immensely as important as the end itself. Understandably, here the problem may be that, as the famous German\xa0philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche put it nicely, “at the critical moment mankind too often forgets precisely what it is trying to accomplish”.\xa0'], ['\xa0'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'March 5, 2014', 'Header': 'Seclusion of the intelligentsia behind the ‘Cult of Scientificism’', 'news_paragraphs': [['It is high time that the intelligentsia renews the age-old spirit of public intellectual by recovering its connections with the social and political realities of the society, as our Columnist Taye Negussie (PhD) argues in this article '], ['Relegating its traditional role of standing for truth, justice, and freedom only to the social activists, today the intelligentsia has become oblivious on the public scene. With the ever distancing of the intelligentsia from the day-to-day social, economic and political realities of the society, subsequently, the academia in many parts of the world has now turned to be an inert and lifeless intellectual environment. The members of the intelligentsia now seem more preoccupied with playing on dogmatic scientific doctrines and procedures than by the need to use intellectual ideas to deal with life’s concrete problems.'], ['Perhaps, the major factor leafing to this disengagement, inter alia, is the current trend of ever growing ivory-tower specialization that puts up an iron-curtain between specialized and non-specialized knowledge as well as between intellectual specializations themselves. This, in turn, has led to the formation of some powerful specialist institutions–sort of intellectual enclaves–passionately committed to protect the turf and exalt their respective professions.'], ['Each specialized field is, then, tasked with forging its own ethos of intellectual framework and working mechanism. For instance, those specialties which claim to be science would have to offer a specific definition of science, set forth an assumption concerning the nature of scientific knowledge, determine the commensurate method of scientific investigation and knowledge validation and posit a mode of scientific knowledge dissemination.'], ['Apparently, the enthusiasm for institutionalizing specialized knowledge has got some significant implications. While, on one hand, it has led to an increasing confinement of the intellectuals within a narrow professional circle; on the other hand, the complication and sophistication of knowledge making process must have destructed the intelligentsia from exploring and reflecting on the pressing needs, demands and interests of the society.'], ['The eminent Columbian University Professor of literature, the late Edward Said, characterizes this institutionalization process as a ‘trap of specialization’ that has locked the intellectuals into an inwardly focused and inwardly spiraling discourse through “self-made arcane vocabulary” understandable only to the respective specialists. For Said, this is a self-defeating exercise for it produced an intellectual realm quite far removed from the world of everyday life and ordinary need.'], ['It goes without saying that much of the academic work remains unnoticed partly owing to its confinement largely in university libraries and restricted websites – out of the sight and judgment of the larger public – not to mention the difficulty essentially involved in understanding the vernacular of scientific expression by non-specialists.'], ['\xa0The ‘cult of scientificism’'], ['Evidently, the whole process involved in institutionalizing the ethos of ‘specialized knowledge’ or ‘science’ is not much different from the process involved in institutionalizing other cultural life. Like any other cultural construction, this too, involves the formulation of doctrinaire assumptions, sanctioning of values and norms and construction of its own vernacular language among others.'], ['To be sure, the definition given to the term science as a “systematic empirical study of things” could indeed be viewed as much a doctrinaire assumption in so far as it has arbitrarily presumed real knowledge to be gained through sensual experience and, thus, maintains this belief only by faithful adherence of its practitioners.'], ['Likewise, the notion of scientific knowledge as something which “accumulates as time goes by” as well appears to be a hypothetical conception envisaged mainly with the purpose of protecting and sanctifying purportedly the prevailing system of scientific knowledge. The oddity of this assumption, however, is that any creative or innovative idea which refutes or contradicts the prevailing system of knowledge – more too often – is fated to get dismissed outright.'], ['Thus, scientists throughout history have often had to fight conventional wisdom to validate their discoveries. In modern times, Barry Marshall and Robin Warren’s findings that bacteria can cause peptic ulcers and Judah Folkman’s discovery of chemical substance which treats numerous forms of cancer are just a few examples which were initially dismissed by their “peer reviewers” simply because they went against the conventional wisdom. Surprisingly enough, all these scientists latter on received Nobel Prizes for their novel contributions. This is quite telling about the problematic nature of the “peer or expert review” knowledge validation mechanism that is often taken for granted.'], ['The highly celebrated philosopher of science of the 20th century, Thomas Khun, in his 1962 publication ‘The Structure of Scientific Revolutions’, debunked the theory of cumulative science as a “myth”. According to Kuhn, though knowledge accumulation plays some role in the advancement of science, the truly major changes have come about “as a result of revolutionary ideas” which have succeeded in overturning the prevailing conventional wisdom.'], ['By the same token, despite the claim of “objectivity”, “universality” and “cultural neutrality” a deeper probe into the operation of science quite well demonstrates its deep embeddedness within the cultural framework of the modern Western society. As cultural anthropologist Rosamund Billington argues in her book ‘Culture and Society’, the beliefs in “scientific knowledge” in modern societies operate in much the same way as “beliefs in God and Spirit” operate in traditional societies. According to her, a society’s picture of reality is protected not only by being seen as ‘sacred’ and ‘dangerous’ but also by being defined as ‘truth’. In modern societies, scientific ideas are most “sacred truths”; they have the same function as religions in traditional societies.'], ['In a different context, we recall that the delusions of the superiority of Aryan race in Nazi Germany, and in US the genetically superior white over black were all but regarded as “scientific facts”. Thus, contrary to the conception of science as universally valid form of knowledge, it is indeed, like any other cultural system, a contextually-contrived belief system – hence the ‘cult of scientifism’ – operating, wittingly or unwittingly, to legitimatize and sustain the dominant socio-economic and political order.'], ['\xa0Renewing the spirit of public intellectual '], ['Edward Said deplores the ‘cult of professionalism’ because it has produced a continually inward-turning intelligentsia. We have reached a stage, he says, at which specialization and professionalization, allied with self-constructed cultural dogma as well as a surprisingly insistent “quasi-religious quietism”, have transported the professional and academic intelligentsia into another world altogether. In that relatively “untroubled and secluded” world there seems to be no contact with the world of events and societies.'], ['Moreover, Said believes ‘scientificism’ surrenders the social and political concerns of society to a discourse dominated by economists and technocrats that is often regarded as being the only true reflection of human affairs. Questions of justice, oppression, marginalization and racial equality are submerged almost entirely “beneath the language of money economy” with its utopian dream that ‘if the figures are right everything else will fall into place’.'], ['It is, thus, high time that the intelligentsia renews the age-old spirit of public intellectual by recovering its connections with the social and political realities of the society in which it lives. Most importantly, the intelligentsia, first and foremost, ought to free itself from the shackle of ‘scientifism’ and narrow professionalism that has made it speak only to itself like a psychiatric patient.'], ['Undoubtedly, this freedom will, by and large, embolden the intelligentsia to expose injustices and speak truth to the powers that be by candidly conveying one’s intellectual insights and investigative outcomes via a relatively more accessible medium of communication, though by no means the only way. Of course, this may demand the courage to scarify one’s “life comforts”. Yet, it is still worth doing; after all, as author Steve Pavlina has succinctly put it, “productivity is creating value and delivering it to people. All other busywork is unproductive fluff and should be minimized.” n'], ['Taye Negussie (PhD) is an Assistant Professor of\xa0 Sociology at Addis Ababa University. He can be reached at: tayesosa@yahoo.com'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'January 5, 2014', 'Header': 'Celebrating the ‘Otherness’?', 'news_paragraphs': [['Our columnist Taye Negussie (PhD) argues that at the root of EPRDF’s ethno-centric ideology is the dubious assumption which conjures up the Ethiopian state as a mechanical amalgam constituting of neatly divided, geographically contiguous and homogenous ethnic entities '], ['On December 8, 2013 Ethiopia marked\xa0 the 8th ‘Nation, Nationalities & Peoples’ Day’ in Jigjiga town, the capital of Ethiopian Somali Regional state under the theme “Our Constitution for Our Renaissance”. For the last eight years, the country has been observing the day to celebrate the day of the adoption of the current Ethiopian constitution which supposedly ‘signifies the reincarnation of the identities, traditions and languages of ‘Nation, Nationalities and Peoples long ‘repressed’ by successive past Ethiopian regimes. Hence, at the core of the celebration is a glamorous display of the uniqueness and distinctiveness of each and every ‘Nation, Nationalities and Peoples’.'], ['From this may follow the questions: first, why it took ten solid years since the endorsement of the constitution in 1995 to commence celebrating the day as of December 2006? Second, given the festivity’s overemphasis on the disjunction rather than shared communalities of ‘Nation, Nationalities and Peoples’ what, then, stands to be the rationale that inspires them to form a single politico-economic community?'], ['Surely, the belated commencement of the celebration would raise some doubt about the real intention behind the celebration. Whether by design or default the first occasion of celebration –December 2006–happenned to coincide with the time in which the ruling Ethiopian People’s Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF) found itself marred in a political quagmire following the infamous 2005 national election. So, this may readily tempt one to doubt whether the celebration is a ‘quick-fix’ of the regime to deal with its political crisis – presumably to set off a stage for raising high its self-made image as a messiah or redeemer of ‘Nations, Nationalities and peoples’ without which they are purportedly bound to doom .'], ['But, a fairly deeper understanding of the underlying motive behind the celebration necessarily demands a brief revisit of the party’s political profile to date.'], ['\xa0'], ['Behind ‘Nation, Nationalities and People’ '], ['We all well know that before the assumption of power by the EPDRF-regime in 1991, the dominant ideology which structured the socio-political framework of the Ethiopian state, and which still is upheld by a significant section of the Ethiopian societies who oppose the current regime, is the ideology that could be termed as ‘pan-Ethiopianism’–a national identity that goes beyond the confines of one’s narrow ethnic, regional, and other sectarian identity; and, a national spirit which largely signifies an ideal, aspiration and a shared sense of Ethiopian consciousness.'], ['Evidently, it was the grudge against this allegedly imposing nationalistic ideology that led some decades back to the insurgency of ethnic-based movement in the likes of Tigray People’s Liberation Movement, (TPLF), the main founder of ruling EPRDF.'], ['The bottom-line of EPRDF’s ideology is pre-EPRDF Ethiopia was a state formed only a century back out of forced incorporation of otherwise independent population groups. Hence the coining of the notion ‘Nation, Nationalities and peoples’ (a hazy concept which never makes it explicit as to which ethnic group belongs to which category) as an ideological tool mainly geared to counterattack what is purported to be a ‘chauvinistic’ sentiment of Ethiopian nationalism. Almost all EPRDF’s political manifestos, public policies and actions, formal and informal briefings of its ideologues explicitly or implicitly aim at obliterating the spirit of pan-Ethiopianism.'], ['As opposed to the shared sense of national unity and solidarity of pan-Ethiopianism, EPRDF’s ethno-centric ideology magnifies the primordial ethnic identity that promotes the binary system of the familiar “us” versus the strange “them”–a parochial partisan worldview which the iconic late Nelson Mandela decidedly fought against all throughout his life.\xa0 Curiously, this division of the nation into distinct and potentially rivaling human groups bears a striking affinity with the classic ‘divide-and-rule’ system.'], ['Apparently, at the root of EPRDF’s ethno-centric ideology is the dubious assumption which conjures up the Ethiopian state as a mechanical amalgam constituting of neatly divided, geographically contiguous and homogenous ethnic entities. Subsequently, ethnic identity is thought to be the sole organizing principle of the country’s socio-political life.'], ['It should, nonetheless, be noted that this claim has never been substantiated by any anthropological and sociological empirical investigation and credible historical analysis to date. To the contrary, the few available systematic studies and common sense knowledge would rather point out, to a degree, the highly complex and dynamic nature in the composition and configuration of contemporary Ethiopian societies. This is particularly more so in the face of not so insignificant number of towns and cities across the country.'], ['Thus, the current hegemonic ethno-centric ideology – far from being rooted in sound and credible intellectual insights – largely appears to have emanated from a limited lived-experience, ethno-centric assumptions, prejudices and stereotypes of its original architects.'], ['\xa0'], ['Hegemonizing Ethno-centrism '], ['Hegemony, initially a term referring to the dominance of one state within a confederation, is now generally understood to mean ‘dominance by consent’. This broader meaning was coined and popularized in the 1930s by Italian Marxist Antonio Gramsci, who investigated why the ruling class was so successful in promoting its own interests in society. For Gramsci, hegemony arises from the power of the ruling class to convince other classes that its interests are the interests of all.'], ['Under stable condition domination is thus exerted not by force, nor even necessarily by active persuasion, but by a more subtle and inclusive power over the economy, and over state apparatuses such as education and the media, by which the ruling class interest is presented as the common interest and thus comes to be taken for granted.'], ['Hegemony is an important tool of domination because the capacity to influence the thought of the oppressed is by far the most sustained and potent operation by the ruling power.\xa0 By virtue of the effectiveness of its hegemony, the ruling power endeavors to legitimize its oppressive ideology by rendering it a sort of normative, unquestionable and sacred character.'], ['As far as EPRDF is concerned, several structural and cognitive strategies have been designed and implemented to maintain and perpetuate the hegemony of ethno-centric politics. Primarily, the ethnic-based federal governance structure takes the lion’s share in materializing and hegemonizing the ongoing ethno-centric political project. Subsequently, the regime worked long and hard to infuse the ethno-centric attitude, feelings, beliefs and practices among the people via old or newly constructed social, economic and political institutions – though the fruitfulness and effectiveness of the endeavor remains to be seen.'], ['On top of what was stated earlier, the aforementioned celebration of ‘Nation, Nationalities Day’, thus, needs to be seen in light of the wider ongoing endeavors undertaken by the regime in order to hegemonize its ethno-centric politics. So, the colorful celebration of the day constitutes one of the cognitive or psychological strategies that come in the form of ritual with its potent power to imbue people with emotional, sentimental and unconscious attachment with object of identity at hand.'], ['In the final analysis, what is least controvertible is the fact that by its very nature ethno-centric identity is bound to portray one’s world in terms of the polarized social domains of “us” and “them”. Alas, this alienating and polarizing ideology is crowning in Ethiopia at the time when the world is ever getting closer to form a unified human community owing to the ongoing globalization – a phenomenon which the Danish political philosophers Hans-Henrick Holm and Georg Sorensen define as “the intensification of economic, political, social and cultural relations across borders.”'], ['Taye Negussie (PhD) is an Assistant Professor of\xa0 Sociology at Addis Ababa University. He can be reached at: tayesosa@yahoo.com '], ['\xa0'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'December 20, 2013', 'Header': 'The ‘Colonization of Mind’', 'news_paragraphs': [['Our conventional education system, modeled after the West and which we often take-for-granted and leave unexamined, could indeed well be a subtle tool that effectively puts us in a tricky state of intellectual subjugation and spiritual enslavement, says our Columnist Taye Negussie (PhD). '], ['In its August 2012 issue, in a piece entitled “Ruling through Soft-power”, this magazine described how Western domination of the developing world evolved from the past direct physical control, occupation and colonization (in the eras of slavery and colonialism) through the barrel of gun to the present approach of bringing countries under their hegemonic sphere of influence via the soft-power of popular culture. Rule through the power of cultural influence aspires to captivate the heart of people with the sole purpose of satisfying the selfish interest and greed of the hegemonic power – hence the ‘colonization of heart’.'], ['Together with the popular culture, an equally powerful and yet subtle tool of maintaining and perpetuating Western hegemonic domination entails the intellectual sphere that systematically manipulates and subjugates the mental faculties of people as typified by the West-modeled behavioral education system, thus, the ‘colonization of mind’.'], ['The downward race to subjugation'], ['Evidently, in most developing countries – the former colonies as well as countries that supposedly evaded the direct colonization of the past century such as Ethiopia – the core educational institutions and practices such as medium of instruction, curriculum contents, teaching methodologies, routine administrative practices, methodologies of knowledge creation and dissemination at large are all but modeled after the dominant Western behavioral education system.'], ['To be sure, the educational curricula of most higher educational institutions in these countries are to a considerable extent a copy-paste of Western Universities. The educational texts and reference materials are entirely Western origin. Even local anthropological and historical books have been written either by Westerners or locals but with a Western perspective. Invariably, the medium of instruction is either English or French. And at times, fluency in instruction language may count more than fair comprehension of a subject matter. All academic researches are to be undertaken, evaluated and disseminated strictly within a Western framework. Even, those trivial educational administrative procedures and practices such as European Credit Transfer System (ECTS) as used in many Ethiopian universities in recording course credit sufficiently bear the mark of a Western influence.'], ['Likewise, many elementary and junior schools work hard and fast to give their educational environment a Western texture. Witness the common practices in many private schools here in Addis Ababa that involve an extraordinary and unparalleled dedication to English language, far greater than any other academic subject, to the extent of prohibiting students to converse in any local language other than English; displaying foreigners in advertisements, and even requiring kindergartens kids to address their female teachers with the English honorific title ‘Miss’…, instead of using one from their mother tongue.'], ['Ironically, the pivotal force behind this thoughtless imitation of Western behavioral education system seems to be the indigenous intellectual elites–themselves the fruits of the same educational system and whose world view has fully been westernized – who presumably maintain entirely uncritical and a kind of superstitious belief and attitudes to what appears remotely Western.'], ['Unsurprisingly, this self-imposed intellectual dominion and submission initiative enjoys a huge moral and material backing both from within and outside on a selection mechanism also modeled after the Western system.'], ['Needless to say, through an educational system designed in its favor, the West has now managed to impose its own world views, cultural dogmas and practices on the larger part of our planet. Evidently, this process forms the basis that aided its behavioral education system to assume a hegemonic status at the moment. Nevertheless, this is not to deny the West its immense contribution in providing some fundamental theoretical insights, technological inventions and discovery that significantly improved the lot of humanity. And yet, in my view, making essential contributions and imposing one’s world view upon others ought to be regarded as distinct phenomena. Thus, this piece mainly seeks to explore the latter.'], ['\xa0Power-knowledge interplay'], ['As a matter of fact, the hegemonic status of the Western behavioral education system, more particularly Western science, has further been bolstered by a well-orchestrated ideology of scientific ‘objectivity’, ‘neutrality’ and ‘universalism’.'], ['In this regard, a prominent French scholar Michael Foucault in a number of his writings asserts the strong interconnectedness between power and knowledge. He argues that the validity of knowledge does not utterly rest upon its truthfulness but is produced and maintained in circulation through the work of a number of different institutions and practices geared to protect and promote the interests of the power that be.'], ['Foucault provides an analysis of how the European expansion and colonization of a huge part of the world aided to impose their system of knowledge on the colonized countries which they proposed as global ‘objective’ systems of knowledge, but which were, in fact, formulated from a Western perspective with Western interests at their core.\xa0 This imposition of knowledge took place through excluding other, equally valid forms of knowledge which were perhaps more relevant to the context of the developing countries.'], ['Thus, he disputes out right the widely held view that characterizes the paradigm of Western science as objective, dispassionate and reflective of universal truth. Moreover, history affirms the fact that the Western science itself, far from being simply a neutral, culturally-unbounded and universally valid system of knowledge, it is indeed a uniquely Western cultural construct and historical phenomenon that emerged within the context of the radical economic and socio-cultural transformation that overwhelmed Europe since the 16th century.'], ['Pierre Bourdieu, one of the few most influential sociologist and educationalist of the 20th century, also suggests educational institutions disseminate certain forms of knowledge through which people can be controlled. They disseminate ‘legitimate knowledge’, the knowledge of the hegemonic power, under the illusion of universal knowledge belonging to everyone.'], ['Michael Apple, in his book, Ideology and Curriculum, argues a hegemonic knowledge saturates our consciousness so that every reality we see and interact with seems to be the only one. He is referring here to those organized assemblage of meanings, doctrines and assumptions formally or informally transmitted in educational institutions. It is through hegemonic knowledge that the control over people and resources become smooth. Accordingly, educational institutions become agents of cultural and ideological hegemony that mainly promote the varied interests of the hegemonic power.'], ['Thus, it must be clear that our conventional education system modeled after the West and which we often take-for-granted and leave unexamined could indeed well be a subtle tool that effectively puts us in a tricky state of intellectual subjugation and spiritual enslavement.'], ['Admittedly, some die-hard advocates of Western system may argue that in this time of globalized world the sole route to compete and survive is by virtue of being ‘westernized’; but, the success story of East Asians well informs us that it is indeed quite possible to beat and win in the global arena without necessarily being ‘westernized’.'], ['\xa0Taye Negussie (PhD) is an Assistant Professor of\xa0 Sociology at Addis Ababa University. He can be reached at: tayesosa@yahoo.com '], ['\xa0'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}]
[{'Date': 'November 26, 2013', 'Header': 'The Football-Politics Nexus in Ethiopia', 'news_paragraphs': [['Despite claims that they are independent of one another sports and politics are intricately intertwined, argues our columnist Taye Negussie (PhD). More often than not, politics manifests itself through sports, and the occasions of sporting events serve as apt moments to communicate about one’s political linings. This is possible because of the ways both national and local identities become associated with sports teams.\xa0'], ['This is particularly true in the realm of what has become the world’s sport: football. Since both governments and ordinary citizens have become so physically, emotionally and mentally involved in that particular game, it has become another branch of political expression, identity and propaganda.'], ['For example, in Europe, during the era of the dictatorships that plagued the continent from 1930s through 1950s, the link between football and politics was extremely visible when the dictatorial regimes often used the victories of their national football teams as vindicating their rather crazy policies, whereas, the ordinary masses seized the occasions of football matches to demonstrate either their loyalty and alignment with or dissatisfaction and resistances to the ideologies of the incumbent regimes.'], ['Last month, the Ethiopian national football team played against its Nigerian counterpart in the first African qualifying round for the 2014 FIFA World Cup here in Addis Ababa. By and large, it was a game which captured the heart and imagination of each and every Ethiopian fan. The weeks and days leading up to the match rather looked like a carnival–with a bustling market of the tri-color national team attire and every other conceivable artifact symbolizing the national team; people wearing and marking faces and bodies with the bright green, yellow and red national colors singing and chanting nationalistic songs on streets; even some government-owned FM radios – in uncharacteristic move – playing the long-shelved nationalistic and patriotic music; some exuberant fans travelling on foot to the capital from far-off places like Adamma as a gesture of their deep and heart-felt commitment and support to the national team.'], ['The moment of the match brought the capital and many other major cities and towns to stand-still when crowds of supporters anxiously watched the game from inside the stadium, in large venues and halls, their homes, bars, and cafeterias.\xa0 Though at the end of the match in which Ethiopia lost 2 – 1 against Nigeria the whole country was engulfed into deeply subdued mood, many supporters shone a remarkable spirit of hope and encouragement at the amazing football skills of the national team–‘the Walias’. On the whole, the infectious nationalistic fervor and exuberance of the Ethiopian national team fans was beyond expression, to say the least.'], ['Now the question arises as to what may possibly explain the enthusiastic and near-hysteria support of the Ethiopian fans to their national team. Is it out of mere passion for football? Does it emanate from the long-tradition of football as a national sport? Or, is it because of a track record of past successes by the national team in continental or world football cups, in the likes of Brazil?'], ['To be sure, none of these can help to explain the issue at hand. As suggested earlier, there will be no doubt about the close interplay between sports (more particularly football) and politics. Especially, in hard and trying moments, football transcends sport and takes on a wide-reaching political or symbolic relevance.'], ['In the contemporary Ethiopian case, I suppose, the issue might be comprehended better when examined within the context of contrasting dimensions of football-politics nexus as unfolded in the post-2005 election period – football serving, paradoxically enough, both as a means of disengagement from as well as engagement in politics concurrently.'], ['\xa0Football as disengagement from politics'], ['Though Ethiopia doesn’t have any strong tradition of football, as of recent it has become almost a national passion. One grim consequence of the tragic 2005 national election which claimed the lives of as many as 200 civilians was to drastically change the attitudes and lifestyles of a significant number of Ethiopian youth. Given the draconian laws and measures (following the election turmoil), the democratic space in the country has substantively been curtailed; and it comes as no surprise to see afterwards many youth being politically apathetic.'], ['By way of escaping the bloody politics, many youngsters have since then resorted to an acquisitive and self-absorbed lifestyle where the burgeoning popular culture such as the European football loomed large. Meanwhile, the life and stories of football players in the Premier League, Bundesliga, and La Liga have become the only agenda that the youth in Ethiopia can freely and safely discuss about.'], ['This move on the part of the youth appeared to be a welcome measure tacitly facilitated by the government as it distracts them from engagement in opposition politics and grass-root civil movement – a respite for a government which no longer has the stomach for any dissenting views.'], ['\xa0Football as engagement in politics'], ['Paradoxically, the same politically-disengaging football, at times, has served as a facet of ideological battle as witnessed in the recently held Ethiopian national football team qualifier playoffs for 2013African Cup of Nations and the 2014 FIFA World Cup.'], ['A close observation of the cheering symbols, narrations, actions undertaken on the occasions of the aforementioned matches quite well reveal some tacit contest of symbolic political discourse underway between the government and the larger football fans.'], ['For instance, much of the government-owned media programs attempted to depict the unprecedented recent successes of the Ethiopian national football team presumably as a showcase of the fruits of the government’s economic and social “renaissance” program vindicating the ruling party’s “triumphant” leadership.'], ['Whereas, on the other hand, the cheering symbols, mood and emotions of the larger national team fans speak otherwise. Witness the incident that though the government mandated the hoisting of the new tri-color national flag that has the coat of arms in the middle in all public occasions by law, several enthusiastic fans were trying to manipulate every opportunity that would lend them a hand to wave the tri-color national flag without the coat of arms as an embodiment of the Ethiopian nationalistic sentiment.'], ['All in all, against the dismal record of the present government on the agenda of national unity and solidarity for the past two decades, the nationalistic fervor among people nearly across the whole country and beyond in the wake of the recent occasions of the national team matches evidently suggests the still intact Ethiopian spirit, unity and collective consciousness that has not changed or been diminished as might be expected otherwise. Moreover, the apparent resistant symbolic display by the larger football fans during such moments may also testify a defiant and protesting gesture against the repressive, divisive and polarizing hegemonic ethnic-politics that has been imposed by the current ruling regime.'], ['\xa0'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'November 4, 2013', 'Header': 'The ‘goddess’ of Market?', 'news_paragraphs': [['Hardcore economists believe the mystique power of the ‘invisible hand’ in the market, first conceived by Adam Smith, essentially creates a self-equilibrating market. But our columnist Taye Negussie (PhD) argues such characterization of the market, particularly when it comes to utilization and preservation of natural resources, misses the subtlety of the actual market exchange processes\xa0\xa0'], ['I think one of the greatest human follies is probably our appetite to worship and venerate things of our own making. The objects of worship may range from a hypothetical discourse to the justly long-standing spiritual doctrines and dogmas. The dawn of the enlightenment era in the eighteenth century Europe was mainly meant to address this crippling human predisposition. Therefore, at the heart of the enlightenment was the premise that any worthy action ought to be guided by well-informed and thoroughly examined knowledge of the issue at hand.'], ['Very few would doubt that modern science owes much of its origin and development to the advent of this liberating and inspiring wisdom; though ironically, now science itself has over time become, to a degree, a source of blind faith and commonsense dogma.'], ['Hence, nowadays a mere mention of ‘scientific fact’ could lead many to readily accept a claim in contravention to the elementary scientific principles that call for the adoption of a cautious, skeptical and critical attitude to any intellectual experience.'], ['A case in point is the discourse of the ‘invisible hand’ in the market, first conceived by Adam Smith, and has now turned to be a sort of orthodoxy forming absolute universal ‘economic law’ presumably at par with such natural laws, say the law of gravitation.'], ['In its most general sense, the economist’s theory of the ‘invisible hand’ articulates that through the operation of the hidden forces in a competitive free market, quality will improve and prices will decline, thereby raising the real standard of living for every buyer; to protect themselves in competition, sellers will be forced to innovate by discovering new products and new markets; products and wealth increase without limit, and society prospers.'], ['In a nutshell, the hardcore economists believe the mystique power of the ‘invisible hand’ or ‘the goddess of market’, so to speak, essentially creates a self-equilibrating market.'], ['\xa0The myth of the ‘invisible hand’'], ['Though quite appealing, this simplistic and imaginative market rhetoric is far-removed from the highly complex and intricate social processes evident in the workings of the real markets on the ground.'], ['Overall, the discourse of ‘invisible hand’ portrays the market as a setting where only immediate buyers and sellers interact. Such a characterization of market, however, is so crude to miss the subtlety of the actual market exchange processes. All too often, an ordinary market exchange involves a multitude of immediate or distant market actors exacting varying levels of influences.'], ['Thus, in a given occasion of exchange, for example, property owners, producers, brokers, service providers, scientific and technological institutions, among others, may overtly or subtly shape the terms and conditions of the exchange. So does the government, by virtue of its regulative and executive role, albeit that differs across place and time.'], ['Add to that, in contrary to the free market advocates’ depiction of equal market actors, those actually involved in a market transaction are indeed actors differentially endowed with regard to access to information, human, social and physical capitals that significantly impact their negotiation and transaction power.'], ['It goes without saying that despite the conception of the market as a sacred sanctuary of virtues, varied incidences of market malfeasance – hording, price fixing, adulteration, monopoly control, conspiracies, collision of interests, and corruption, among others – are not as such uncommon.'], ['All these signify the claim of an alleged mystique power of ‘invisible hand’ beyond the awareness and willpower of market actors is just a fantasy; instead, behind the operation of the real market is the rather ordinary workings of a combination of forces – conscious or unconscious emotions, motives, moods, intentions, influences and activities of living human actors and institutions – directly or indirectly involved in market transaction.'], ['\xa0Of marketing mother-nature'], ['The hypothetical and unrealistic assumption of the free market would become more ridiculous as its model is applied per se to deal with the processes of natural cycles as evidenced in the now ill-fated United Nations Conventions on Climate Change and Biological Diversity.'], ['Apparently, with the motive of averting global warming, the loss of biodiversity and the depletion of arable soil and water, the aforesaid conventions formulated a market mechanism and financial incentive strategies that govern the utilization and preservation of natural resources. The strategies of “carbon-trading” (which trades natural conservation endeavors with financial rewards), and “carbon-rationing” (that seeks a cap on permissible CO2 mission), were among the schemes devised along that line of thinking.'], ['Following the utter failure of the aforementioned market model in which the trading partners were at least presumed to be human agents, as of recent, another more weird model that portrays nature itself as a rent-collector, namely ‘ecosystem service provision’– conceived with the presumption that ecosystem service ought not to be provided for ‘free’– has been developed as a substitute of the former.'], ['All the same, both approaches view ecological preservation as commercial matter and thus reduce the natural environment to a set of mere tradable goods and services.'], ['Many studies done to assess the merit of the market approach to nature have now revealed momentous shortfalls inherent in its very conception. For instance, in her investigation in Brazil, environmental scientist Barbara Unmuessig found out that the approach all too often gives a leeway for powerful businesses to manipulate the system. As she observed in Brazil, those influential agro-business industries which destroyed more vegetation than the legal permit managed to cover up their environmental destructive acts by simply purchasing the requisite destruction credits from those with more than the mandated minimum amount of forest cover.'], ['This experience highlights the danger of putting nature on the market – namely, that it offers those with money the option of buying their way out, at the expense of more vulnerable citizens, particularly indigenous peoples and poor small-scale farmers.'], ['So, it becomes clear that the market approach as a sole solution to environmental problems – at the exclusion of all other social and ethical principles – emanates not from a critically-examined scientific wisdom but rather draws on ideology that idolizes market as a miraculous remedy to all types of ills. As the renowned scholar Karl Polanyi in his work, The Great Transformation, admittedly noted, “The capitalist transformation was the development of a market society and a free-market ideology that aspired to commodity and rearrange all human institutions to serve market principles.”'], ['But, when it comes to the environment what is apparently overlooked is the fact that the very problem was, first and foremost, caused mainly by market-driven and excessively materialistic civilization. And sadly enough, leaving nature solely to the vagaries of market amounts to just risking its fate at the mercy of those who can afford the right to use as well as abuse it – not to mention the immorality inevitably involved in extending the devil of market to the realm of the sanctified and priceless gifts of nature for sustenance of life.'], ['\xa0'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'September 24, 2013', 'Header': 'The ABCs of totalitarianism', 'news_paragraphs': [['Our columnist Taye Negussie (PhD) answers some of the'], ['perplexing questions many of us ponder: what is totalitarianism? What are the features most commonly attributed to authoritarian regimes? And, most importantly, how is it possible for totalitarian regimes to subjugate so large a mass of citizens depriving them of their independent individual thought?\xa0'], ['The 2009 edition of Encarta premium defines totalitarianism as a system of government and ideology in which all social, political, economic, intellectual, cultural, and spiritual activities are subordinated to the purposes of the rulers of a state.'], ['The invariable mark of all totalitarian regimes turns out to be rule by fraud and force. Apparently, this falls in line with the advice of the Italian philosopher Niccolò Machiavelli who argued that the qualities of a great ruler were those of “a very savage lion and a very tricky fox” as a result of which he would be “feared and respected by everybody”. According to Machiavelli, the ultimate aim of such a ruler is to rise to the heights of “princely fame and glory for himself and security for his government”.'], ['Governments which have been characterized as totalitarian in recent history include the fascist regimes in Europe before World War II and the former and contemporary communist and other dictatorial regimes around the world. Surprisingly, despite the variation in geographical, historical, ideological and cultural backgrounds, many totalitarian regimes share a striking similarity in their strategies and practices of repressive rule.'], ['\xa0State structuring'], ['Under a totalitarian regime the state often relates with individual citizens via government-engineered hierarchical collectives that deny a place for free and sovereign individuals; most independent civic associations and organizations are destroyed, coaxed or newly molded to serve the purpose of the regime.'], ['The rationale underlying these measures seems to be grounded in the idea that a government could effectively control the lives of its subjects only when they are assembled in some form of stupefying collectives and herds that would significantly curtail their individual capacity for reasoning and moral choice. Hitler fervently used to maintain that when individuals function in collectives they become incapable of abstract thinking; minding only their immediate experiences, they are bound to–instinctually and mindlessly–identify with the presumed ideals of their herds.'], ['\xa0Reign of dogmatic doctrines '], ['In totalitarian rule, some dogmatic political ideologies are often upheld like theological doctrines. These doctrines come packaged in few vague phrases and concepts that should constantly be repeated so as to implant them upon the mind of the masses. In these dogmatic doctrines, there are no grays in the picture of the world. Everything is either diabolically black or celestially white. And every problem has to be interpreted solely in the framework of the reigning dogmas. Stereotyped categorization and labeling emanating from these dogmas serve as a convenient means to humiliate, weaken and ultimately annihilate every presumed opponent, competing institutions and establishments.'], ['\xa0Deception and persuasion'], ['Evidently, propagandists of totalitarian regimes–like commercial advertisers–know it well as how to sell their prejudices and dogmas to the larger mass. Insights from fields of social psychology and neurology have revealed that the unconscious drives constitute human’s instinctual emotions of hope, fear, anxiety, and prejudices. With effective manipulation of these derives, one can easily activate a state of hypnosis–an illusory mental state (incapability of distinguishing the real from the myth) and heightened suggestibility that induces people to perform–like a programmed machine–whatever they are called upon to.'], ['There are apparently several mass hypnotizing methods most often employed, wittingly or unwittingly, by totalitarian regimes with a view to normalize and popularize their fanatical ideologies. Among these: public ceremonies and rituals; orchestrated mass demonstrations; brain-washing seminars and slogans; relentless narration of self-congratulatory stories; collective evaluations; psychological symbols (flags, emblems etc.); material symbols (monuments, parks and stadiums) and various artistic works (literature, music, drama).'], ['Furthermore, propaganda messages composed–with the aid of technological devices–in highly sensational, exciting, or frightening images, texts and sounds get frequently broadcasted via electronic or press media to deceive and persuade the uncritical mass.'], ['\xa0Disdain for intellectuals '], ['As a rule of thumb, nearly all totalitarian regimes harbor marked cynicism and hostility towards intellectuals–probably owing to their critical habit which makes them resistant to the kind of propaganda that works so well on the majority. Obviously, intellectuals are the kind of people who demand evidence and reject logical inconsistencies and fallacies. As Aldous Husley, a reputed political thinker has aptly put it, “Intellectuals regard over-simplification as the original sin of the mind and have no use for slogans, the unqualified assertions and sweeping generalizations which are a totalitarian regime propagandist’s stock in trade”.'], ['Overall, totalitarian regimes–led by a dictatorial leader or party–could have prevailed only by subjugating their citizens through repressive and dehumanizing legal, institutional and communal frameworks, all the while maintaining a firm grip over the economy, media and mass communications.'], ['\xa0The Ethiopian case scenario'], ['A glimpse at a series of policies, laws, strategies and practices adopted and carried out by the present Ethiopian government demonstrate a great deal of affinity with most of the features listed above.'], ['These involve, among others, stratification of state-citizen relationship through ethnic-based regional structuring and subsequent ethnicization practices guided by the dogma of ‘nation, nationalities and people’; liquidation and substitution of autonomous civic institutions with para-governmental varieties; maintaining effectively a single dominant party-rule; promulgating various repressive laws; categorizing and demeaning alleged opponents; largely denying people access to independent media; subjecting citizens to relentless manipulative media propaganda, brain-washing seminars, follow-ups and evaluations (the notorious gimmgemma); bolstering the security forces ever than before; and, above all the remarkable absence of genuinely free and democratic election process and non-partisan law enforcement agencies.'], ['All these and other accounts are reason enough to close the rank of the current Ethiopian regime with the classical totalitarian regimes – a morally and intellectually bankrupt system of government that deeply distresses people.'], ['\xa0'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'August 19, 2013', 'Header': 'Understanding Ethiopia’s vicious cycle of authoritarianism', 'news_paragraphs': [['Taye Negussie (PhD)'], ['Despite its renowned long-history as a state, unfortunately Ethiopia has so far never been able to see any semblance of a democratic regime. All the hitherto reigning regimes have been bluntly autocratic varying only in their ideological discourses; though, now authoritarianism is in its worst state as the current government combines it with the perilous ideology of ethnocentrism.'], ['All the present government early promises of democracy, justice and freedom seem to come to a dramatic end particularly after the 2005 election. Most recently promulgated legislative and administrative acts and those in the offing sufficiently testify to the authoritarian nature of the incumbent. One hardly needs to mention the belatedly coined rhetoric of ‘developmental state’, glorification of the Chinese communist system and the admonition of liberal democracy are but attempts to rationalize its authoritarianism.'], ['On the other hand, the unremitting bickering, rivalry, betrayal, and fragmentation within and among opposition parties leave one to wonder: what has fundamentally gone wrong with this country? what conspires against the inception and growth of democracy in this ancient land?'], ['In this connection, the concern so far both in the academic as well as popular press has been confined to describing and admonishing autocratic regime. However, any serious attempt to address the problem of authoritarianism must go further than this, and examine its possible causes and means of sustenance.'], ['I believe that authoritarianism is not merely an incidental rise to power by a single psychopathic tyrant; rather it is implicitly or explicitly linked with the prevailing familial, communal, societal values, norms, attitudes and practices that produce the personal characteristics and the social infrastructure that give rise to and sustain an autocratic regime.'], ['In this regard, a brief explanation of how the established structural, institutional and cultural frameworks in Ethiopia provide favorable conditions for an autocratic political regime to surface and thrive is in order.'], ['\xa0The family system'], ['The typical Ethiopian family (particularly in the Semitic culture) is a highly stratified system in which each member is accorded a distinct social position. The notion of Awaki (adult) versus Lijje (child), implies a hierarchy of knowledge endowment whereby the adult figure is invariably assumed to be an embodiment of ‘absolute’ and ‘complete’ knowledge whilst the child figure represents ‘incompleteness’ and ‘ignorance’, thus, resulting in one-way mode of communication between ‘unquestionable’ adult and passive child. Complete obedience, submissiveness and quietude are among the highly cherished virtues that a child is expected to acquire. There is hardly any tradition of candid and genuine discussion among family members. Therefore, the family barely allows the development of democratic disposition and capabilities; instead, it tends to breed either dominant or submissive personality well-fitted to authoritarianism.'], ['\xa0The school environment'], ['Likewise, the teaching-learning process in the school takes place within a highly restrictive and authoritarian setting. The teacher is often considered to be the alpha and omega of knowledge who deposits some ‘fixed’ ideas and principles in the ‘empty’ heads of the passive students. There scarcely exists opportunities for free exchange of information, ideas and knowledge between the teacher and student-body. The evaluation system typifies a ‘Darwinian’ world that glorifies the biting of one by the other. The ideal relationship between teacher and student is that of impersonal and unsympathetic type. Thus, no wonder such a rigid and hostile school environment produces citizens far more attuned to authoritarian than a democratic system.'], ['\xa0The work place'], ['In the world of work, the notion of ‘Aleka’ (the chief) and ‘Minzzir’ (employee) presupposes the ‘bossy-showy’ vs. ‘submissive-hypocrite’ characteristics that renders the chief-employee relation a lord-vassal characteristic. The boss is viewed as embodiment of the rules and regulations of the office; and law enforcement agencies count more than rules and laws. Often employees await orders from their employers to accomplish their regular duties which are regarded as occasions for pleasing bosses. Open discussion and exchange of ideas is rarity; and the words of the boss are final and binding. Here again, the working environment represents another dreadful authoritarian monster–an ideal vehicle for authoritarian regime to thrive.'], ['\xa0Other cultural liabilities'], ['In addition, such widespread traditions of servitude,\xa0 opportunism, passiveness, fatalistic attitude (i.e. the belief in ‘divine providence’), and now growing sentiment of ethnocentrism and reprisal, the cult of hero, secretive and suspicious characteristic, ironic and ambiguous expression (think of ‘kine’ tradition’), low political consciousness, excessive veneration of leaders, exaggerated fear of authorities and established institutions, poverty and illiteracy are but few of the cultural impediments or liabilities for promotion of freedom and democracy.'], ['The upshot of the preceding arguments is that the problem of authoritarianism in Ethiopia as a whole appears to take a vicious cycle whereby authoritarian socio-cultural framework, dominant and/or submissive personalities and authoritarian political regimes feed into each other so as to create and perpetuate authoritarian political regimes. The saying, “a government is what a given society deserves”, thus, rings true here.'], ['Now the biggest challenge remains to be that of breaking this vicious circle at some point. Of course, historically all today’s advanced democracies had initially emerged out of authoritarian social system. Here the transition to democracy was effected by those democratic groups of personalities who took the “leap of faith” from autocratic to democratic disposition. Likewise, the only way to break Ethiopia’s vicious cycle of authoritarianism is by those exceptionally democratic personalities or forces who dare to take the “leap of faith” from authoritarian to democratic disposition by mobilizing the whole population to promote democratic culture at all levels in the society.'], ['\xa0'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'July 22, 2013', 'Header': 'The predicament of Ethnic-federalism', 'news_paragraphs': [['Taye Negussie (PhD) '], ['In its two different past publications, this magazine came up with some research findings and critical views of scholars who had for long observed and investigated the various aspects of Ethiopia’s ethnic-based Federalism.'], ['In the December 2011 issue, we published a story that argued by keeping a “tight-grip” on the three main forms of decentralization – fiscal, political and legislative–and by openly directing most activities of the regional states the federal government itself has largely obstructed the realization of the supposed “unlimited” exercise of the rights of self-determination by “Nations, Nationalities and Peoples” of Ethiopia. Once again, in January 2013, we reported about the surge of ethnic-related conflicts in the aftermath of ethnic-based federal system in the country.'], ['Apart from this, the daily ordeals of the common public – which now seems to distress even the government – due to rampant corruption, human rights violations, displacement of civilians, ethno-centric attitudes, inter-ethnic mistrust, a sense of insecurity especially by non-ethnic residents of given places look to be directly or \xa0indirectly linked with the workings of ethnic-federalism in Ethiopia.'], ['Despite the government’s insistence on supposedly insufficient experiences and poor expertise of regional states as the primary cause, in my view, the ultimate source of the problem rather seems to be rooted in the ambiguous and self-contradictory system of ethnic-based federalism as briefly highlighted upon below.'], ['The hazy phrase of “Nation, Nationalities and Peoples”'], ['Article 39(5) of the constitution provides a single definition to otherwise semantically distinct concepts of “Nation” “Nationalities” and “Peoples” by lumping them together in a composite phrase of “Nation, Nationalities and Peoples”. Yet, their distinctiveness appears vivid when one sees the differently tagged classification of regional states.'], ['From this, then, follows the questions: why has the constitution opted for a composite phrase of three semantically different terms to signify one and the same thing? \xa0Why some ethnic groups apparently identified as ‘nations’ or ‘people(s)’ were bestowed from the outset the status of ‘state’ while some similar others (admittedly, the constitution offers that right on conditional basis) were denied the same?\xa0 Does the assertion of equal rights and powers (including session) among ethnic groups make sense whilst they are placed along varying hierarchical administrative echelons of ‘state’, ‘zone’ and ‘wereda’?'], ['All these clearly would throw into doubt the seriousness of the much-boasted equality of “nation, nationalities and people” and the fairness of the classification of discrete administrative echelons along ethnic lines.'], ['\xa0A \xa0reductionist approach'], ['The Ethiopian People’s Revolutionary Democratic Front’s (EPRDF) ideological discourse has it that the reason for instituting an ethnic-based federal state in Ethiopia was mainly because of the need to redress ‘past historical injustices’ committed by the ‘Amhara ruling-class’ against all other ethnic groups.'], ['This is essentially a reductionist ideological construct apparently coined to serve political purposes. Truth be told, the forms of prejudices and repressions in the course of many centuries long interactions and contentions among a number of social entities in Ethiopia were of remarkably complex and quite varied in nature.'], ['I would group them here into two broad categories: Ethnic and/or regional domination in which at a certain point in time some politically, economically, demographically or culturally more powerful regional, an ethnic or alliance of ethnic \xa0groups absorb and repress the less powerful ones; and inter and/or intra-ethnic repression whereby certain members of an ethnic or other ethnic groups are subjugated by the same or other ethnic groups due to their trade, faith, minor physical differences or disability or some myths and legends often forming social caste groups in almost all ethnic entities.'], ['The fallacy of ‘democratic-ethnocentrism’'], ['Ethiopia’s ethnic-federalism, as per EPRDF’s discourse, is basically guided by the principle of ‘democratic-ethnocentrism’. Yet, a sober assessment of the concept reveals a measure of theoretical, experimental and moral fallacies.'], ['Theoretically, whereas democracy denotes inclusion, tolerance and compassion, among others, ethnocentrism with its emphasis on privileging one’s ethnic members implies exclusion, discrimination or ‘partial justice’. \xa0Thus, the notion of ‘democratic- ethnocentrism’ is inherently fallacious born out of a forced-marriage of entirely contradictory views of ‘democracy’ and ‘ethnocentrism’.'], ['The experimental fallacy appears evident with the granting of an exclusive-right to rule to a single ethnic group in a rather ethnically mixed and demographically ever changing country. Crowning one ethnic group over others would give way to ridiculous form of ‘reverse injustice’–righting ‘old injustice’ with ‘new injustices’. Whereas the moral fallacy is quite evident when one is faced with choosing one worthy identity from among many equally competing identities.'], ['Such form of governance is bound to be caught up in what I call the ‘dilemma of ethnic democracy’: \xa0“All ethnic entities in a given administrative unit are equal, but one is more equal than others!” Definitely, this can be nothing but a form of political ploy.'], ['In general, Ethiopia’s ethnic-federalism sets forth ‘ethnic enclosures’ guarded by ‘ethnic-extremism’ where ethnic-differences frame the basic organizing principle of social and political life. It thrives on political opportunism, ethnic entrepreneurship, loyalty and favoritism; so, no wonder that it becomes the source of many administrative malfeasances.'], ['At this time of ever integrating world what Ethiopia needs is not divisive and potentially explosive governance but an integrative and democratic one that both acknowledges and respects cultural differences–cultural pluralism–and also promotes a spirit of brotherhood, solidarity and unity among its diverse social entities.'], ['Prof. Steve Fenton, author of a famous book “Ethnicity” said, “The narcotic of self-pity and the whine of victimhood become the elevator music of ethnocentrism and the mainstay of ethnic-entrepreneurs.” Inarguable. '], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}]
[{'Date': 'June 21, 2013', 'Header': 'The case  for a ‘Third-Way’ of education', 'news_paragraphs': [['Taye Negussie (PhD)'], ['Since a while we hear a lot about the ever ‘deteriorating quality’ of education in Ethiopia. But questions such as, “what does ‘deteriorating quality’ of education really mean?” and “how do we know about it?” may appear strange because for many people there is only one unitary and consensual view regarding education, and hence take the issue for granted.\xa0'], ['Contrary to this conviction, however, there are two major strands of educational views with significantly diverging positions on such basic issues like what education is and how it should be delivered to students.'], ['The classical view known as the humanist school viewed education as an endeavor poised to set about the fullest development of humans – intellectual, moral as well as social. In this line of thought, education basically ought to activate the inner energy of students, and instill in them a sense of mission, responsibility, courage and determination to pursue wisdom throughout one’s life.'], ['But since the 1950s, basing its assumption on Pavlov’s theory of classical conditioning, the current conventional education – the behavioral education – came to dominate educational thinking and practices across the world. This perspective views education as an organized activity which shapes or modifies the behavior of students in a controlled environment. For behavioral educationalists, the cardinal purpose of education is the transmission of a quantified amount of skill and experience to learners within a fixed time and space through rigorous instruction and training.'], ['Behavioral education is mainly guided by the doctrine of social adaptation and immediate needs. Here the presumption appears to be that there already exists an ideal social system to which the new generation only needs to adapt itself to. The available knowledge is presumably complete and perfect and has to be stuffed in the minds of students packaged in the form of bulky information and complex sets of skills. In this line of thought, education mainly caters to the youth’s need of making a living.'], ['The behavioral education also typifies an authoritative, uncritical and unaccountable educational system and operates at three levels of power hierarchies: at the top, there exist ‘omnipotent’ educationalists (education policy makers, planners and administrators); at the middle, ‘omniscient’ teachers – (‘intellectual fathers’); and at the bottom, the powerless, obedient, receptive ‘herds’ of students (the ‘information vessel’).'], ['The concern that the thinking and practices of current hegemonic behavioral education potentially having adverse effects on humanity has caused a flurry of criticisms from many critical thinkers in the fields of education, psychology, sociology, philosophy and many more.'], ['Critiques like the noted educator John Holthas deplored the contemporary schooling system as “cultural or political imprisonment” that traps young people in artificial and mainly irrelevant environment and rewards “conformity and docility” while inhibiting “curiosity and creativity”.'], ['On his part, C. Wright Mills, a philosophical sociologist, saw the adverse effects of the behavioral education system mainly on the morality of students. He contends it is a system most likely to turn out students “who owe any duty to society except to obey the laws and submit to the government.”'], ['On the whole, among the issues that recur across the works of most critiques of behavioral education are the views that it is a mindless, indifferent social institution dedicated to producing fear, docility and conformity; it only educates students on how to behave rather than how to think; it imposes a curriculum which usurp the right to select one’s own development path; it yields positivist scholars who worship numbers and statistics despite the fact that they are susceptible to manipulation; it breeds selfish, competitive citizens obsessed with out-ward looking; it neglects individual differences and easily lends itself as a tool for indoctrinating the ideology of despotic government.'], ['However these two points reveal, to a degree, the hollowness of the much-talked ‘deteriorating quality of education’ in Ethiopia, which often put the blame on curriculum, teaching method, and teaching facilities among others.'], ['In my view, the problem of ‘quality of education’ seems to be rooted in the very doctrine of behavioral education modeled after Pavlov’s theory of classical conditioning. Evidently, modeling after this theory is tantamount to equating humans with animals, reducing a spiritual-being to a mere instinctual and biological-being.'], ['Controversies regarding this issue have invigorated afresh the world over. But the nature of the controversies happens to be largely exclusionist: on the one hand, there exists a view which argues solely for a highly structured and predominantly behavior-oriented education; on the other hand, the need for an entirely free and unstructured educational system.'], ['Thus, as an alternative to this either or approach, I commend a ‘Third-Way’ of education, particularly at higher level, which draws on the relative strengths of each contending model.'], ['The ‘Third-Way’ approach rests on the philosophic assumption that humans are by nature both animal and rational beings. Subsequently, it suggests a hybrid of generative-derivative educational curriculum executed via semi-structured educational system. The structured component comprises an ordered, teacher-assisted instruction of a core of time-tested procreative subjects such as language, communication, philosophy, and basic natural, physical and social sciences. The learning of generative subjects often endows students with the ability to learn the derivative subject whose learning is not of significant value for acquisition of further knowledge.'], ['Whereas the liberal part provides the opportunity for students to exercise their free will and work on their inner growth. Its application demands responsible engagement of students in semi-self-guided and semi-instructor-monitored study of one’s own pace and self-chosen educational contents compatible with one’s natural disposition. Here the principal criterion is not a short-term economic analysis but rather the long-term emancipation of humanity. In the course of school education learners would be provided mainly with the motivation, habits, ideas and techniques that they need to continue to educate themselves for school education cannot offer all they will ever need to know. This Galileo Galilee had in mind when he said, “You cannot teach a man anything; you can only help him find it within himself.”'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'May 14, 2013', 'Header': 'Where is Ethiopian politics heading to?', 'news_paragraphs': [[''], [''], ['The recent political dynamic in Ethiopia has a return towards factional authoritarian regime written all over it \xa0'], ['Taye Negussie (PhD)'], ['A quick look at the just ended Ethiopia’s local and city administrations election will discern, among others, two outstanding developments: a conspicuous absence of the major opposition parties, and the rather unimpressive election platforms espoused by the ruling Ethiopian Peoples’ Revolutionary Democratic Party (EPRDF) with the leading ones being “to bring the ongoing infrastructural construction projects to completion”, and ‘in order to materialize Meles’s vision’’.'], ['With the absence of any seriously contending party, a “landslide victory” by\xa0\xa0 the ruling party will never come as a surprise no matter what its election platforms are. Nevertheless, a closer examination of these election platforms and other related political issues helps us gauge the level of maturity in the political-culture of the nation in general and the current political trends of the party in particular. And this is more so with EPRDF as a party that decidedly embarked on reconfiguring the political landscape of the country and took up the lion’s share in instituting the current hegemonic political and economic order.'], ['\xa0Administrative matters as election platform'], ['To begin with, the elections campaign motto –‘to bring the ongoing infrastructural construction projects to completion’–is undoubtedly an issue which largely concerns administrative and bureaucratic matters. As a matter of fact, in fairly functional state during an event of election what is often presumed to leave its position is only the losing party. As such, the administrative and bureaucratic machineries of the state are in principle presumed to proceed with their ongoing administrative and project activities; unless, of course, it is the case with an authoritarian regime which systematically blends its party functionaries with bureaucratic apparatus of the state. Thus, the aforementioned election platform could barely stand as a fairly appealing cause for reasonably rational electorates.'], ['For that matter, had the issue of ‘completion of projects’ been a valid cause, it would have been nearly impossible to see alteration of power from one party to another for it would easily lend itself as a mere excuse for the incumbent to cling to power for an ever-ending term.'], ['\xa0Faith in “Meles’s vision” '], ['With respect to the campaign motto –‘in order to materialize Meles’s vision’–one, first and foremost, needs to consider the questions: what does it really mean? Most importantly, why has it been picked up as election platform by the ruling party in the present election?'], ['Many of us recall the late Prime Minister Meles Zenawi passionately expressing on several occasions his close affinity with his party, so much so that he would hardly distinguish his political or even personal life from that of the party he fashioned. Certainly, he was nowhere sighted championing his own personal idea and vision as distinct from the grand political and economic agenda of EPRDF. Thus, the notion of “Meles’s vision” is quite unclear to many whether it refers to all purportedly EPRDF’s policies and programs or Meles’s own personal vision.'], ['Nevertheless, a more systematic look into the mantra of “Meles’s vision” will reveal that apparently it’s an ideological construction basically meant to serve as a stabilizing force to maintain the status quo and a rhetoric which emotionally appeals, given the relatively higher popularity of the late premier, to potential supporters as well as voters – sadly enough, now it appears to be rapidly evolving into some sort of “theocratic faith”.'], ['As a matter of fact, in otherwise reasonably challenging election contest what contestant parties vying for power ought to offer to their potential electorates is not their “faith” in the leader’s vision, least a deceased one,\xa0 but rather a newly crafted and well-articulated rational idea that promises for the people fairly better living circumstances from their present conditions. To a degree, this signifies that current Ethiopian politics is inadvertently on the course of a downward spiral – quickly degenerating from reason to faith.'], ['Thus, the relatively low-spirit evident around many of the poll stations may reflect either voters’ low appraisal of the election or their dissatisfaction with the current political situation in the country at large.'], ['Of making sense '], ['All said, one may rightly ask: is there any scientific wisdom to comprehend in general at times of such political stalemates quite evident in this election and beyond? In this regard, I found German’s historical sociologist Max Weber’s theory of ‘charismatic authority’ to be quite a useful perspective to look through and make sense of the situation.'], ['Weber defines ‘charismatic authority’ as authority legitimized on the ground of followers’ devotion “to the exceptional sanctity, exemplary character, heroism, or special powers (for example the ability to work miracles) of leaders, as well as on the normative order sanctioned by him.” In an extreme case, followers may view the leader “as if endowed with supernatural, superhuman, or at least exceptional power or qualities that are not accessible to the ordinary persons.”\xa0 The recent strange phenomenon in Venezuela where its late president Hugo Chavez has been elevated supposedly to the “sacred” status of “Sainthood” along with a temple dedicated to worship him by his devout follower could be an illustrative instance of this thesis.'], ['According to Weber, what sets charismatic authority apart from the democratic legal-rational authority is primarily the absence or poorly enforced universal formal laws, rules and regulations. In addition, in charismatic authority structure, there exists no clearly established hierarchical relationship between offices and administrative organs.\xa0 The staffs of charismatic authority are chosen primarily on their personal loyalty to the leader and thus lack the necessary qualification and competence – the very conditions which allowed the charismatic leader to freely intervene in the affairs of the organization.'], ['What interested Weber in charismatic authority structure was the question of what would happen to it when the leader dies? He argues, a charismatic system is “inherently fragile” and it would seem to be able to survive only as long as the charismatic leader lives. Subsequently, the continuity of the organization is of “greatest consequences” to his followers because “if the organization ceases to exist, they are out of work.” Thus, the challenge for the followers is the creation of a situation in which “charisma in some adulterated form persists even after the leader’s death.”'], ['One way to address this challenge is to search out a new charismatic leader which is unlikely to get one with the same aura as his predecessors. From his vast historical data Weber concludes that a situation like this would often put charismatic organizations on the cross-road: either descend to an archaic dynastic rule or courageously embrace the modern democratic system which strictly upholds the supremacy of the rule of law.'], ['But, it should be noted that whereas Weber’s prediction was for a socio-political system that prevailed almost a century ago, in the socio-political context of the present-world there appears to be many possible political pathways following the end of a charismatic authoritarian rule. The basic ones being: a “truly democratic multi-party system”, “autocratic factional regime”, “semblance of dynastic rule”, “rule by a military junta” or in the worst case scenario an utterly “failed-state”.'], [''], [''], ['In the Ethiopian case, all the political moves of the government after the death of Prime Minister Meles somewhat bear a mark of transition from “visible-hand” politics operated mainly by well-recognized charismatic leader to an “invisible-hand” politics probably operated by some fairly obscure political actors off the stage as evidenced in the recent extra-constitutional appointment of three vice-Prime Ministers. Even then, what has changed is simply the playing-field on which the same familiar political-game is being played. Thus, the current political state in Ethiopia indicates a return towards autocratic factional regime which in the first place had produced the charismatic authoritarian regime. \xa0'], ['\xa0Taye Negussie (PhD) is an Assistant Professor of Sociology at Addis Ababa University. He can be reached at: tayesosa@yahoo.com'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'April 22, 2013', 'Header': 'The ‘New Model’ for emerging totalitarianism', 'news_paragraphs': [['A look at the fast spreading new form of appetite for dictatorship\xa0 '], ['Taye Negussie (PhD)'], ['Recently, Marcel H. Van Hergen, one of the noted contributors to the Project Syndicate, posted an article entitled, ‘Putinism’s Authoritarian Allure”. In the article, Hergen demonstrated an unprecedented current trend in Western Europe with many far-right parties retreating from their staunch anti-communist and anti-Russian ideologies, and moving to “admiration” and “even outright support” for Russian President Vladimir Putin’s regime.'], ['He reasons that what attracted Western Europe’s extreme far-right parties to Putin’s “negative agenda” is its affinity with Mussolini’s Doctrine of Fascism which opposes democracy, socialism, liberalism, individualism, Bolshevism, parliamentarianism, Freemasonry, pacifism, and egalitarianism.\xa0 The similarity even goes to personal style with a clear parallel existing between Putin and Mussolini in terms of their public image building efforts to appear as much powerful, invincible and mythical leader as possible.'], ['In his view, while ‘Putinism’ and Italian Fascism have in common the strange feature of rejecting both communism and democratic ideologies, however there is an important distinction in their approach to democracy: “while Mussolini formally declared fascism to be anti-democratic, Putin does not openly reject democracy or explicitly advocate a one party-state; rather, he claims to have established a “managed” or “sovereign” democracy – a system that prevents the alteration of power, thereby establishing a one-party state as a matter of fact, if not of principle.”\xa0 This is apparently the central core ideology which Hergen attributes to the new model of ‘Putinism’.'], ['In short, Hergen’s main contention is that at a time when one cannot openly advocate an authoritarian regime or a one-party system, ‘Putininism’ offers a “clever and effective” model of a right-wing or Neo-fascist authoritarian regimes.'], ['In light of what is happening in many countries under authoritarian regimes, the ‘Putinism’s model thesis’ is quite appealing. But, it must also be emphasized that despite a shift in the form of rule, the nature and essence of many current authoritarian regimes largely remain the same with that of their predecessors – a reason why they are referred as neo-fascists.'], ['As a reminder, following is a brief highlight of the salient features of fascism in early 20th century Europe adapted from a reading on fascism in the 2009 Encarta Premium edition in light of which readers may see and judge for themselves the apparent behavior and actions of today’s authoritarian regimes popping up here and there in different parts of the world.'], ['Fascism in early 20th century Europe rose as a political ideology with the premise to “renew” the social, economic and cultural life of a country, and was based either on ultra-nationalism or ethnocentrism – the conviction that one’s ethnic group is at the center of one’s world view or fellows from the same ethnic group are more sensible to deal with. Fascism rejects liberal ideas such as freedom and individual rights, and other elements of democracy. In the context of the then Europe, all forms of fascist movements displayed three distinguishing features: “anticonservatism” or “antievolutionism”, a “myth of ethnic or national renewal”, and a “conception of a nation in crisis”.'], ['\xa0Anticonservatism or antievolution '], ['All fascist movements opposed the idea of conservatism or evolutionary change–the notion that social and political change should proceed slowly and incrementally. In contrast to this, the fascists were obsessed with violent revolutionary change determined to “create a new type of total culture in which values, politics, art, social norms, and economic activity are all part of a single national community.”'], ['For instance, the Nazi government of Germany attempted in the 1930s to institute a new “peoples community” premised on the idea of “racial purity”. Similarly, the Mussolini government in Italy conducted many sporting and filming events, and constructed many stadiums and huge buildings as “monuments to fascist ideas”. Because of this, many scholars regard all fascist movements as “social experiments” to create “new modern states”.'], ['\xa0Myth of national or ethnic renewal'], ['Despite their revolutionary zeal, the fascist movements emphasized the “revival” of mythical past allegedly lost due to some intervening forces. In this regard, the movements went to the point of revising “conventional history” in order to create the idealized past. Because of the emphasis on creating a renewed national or ethnic community, the fascists were hostile to all scientific, economic, religious, academic, cultural, and leisure activities which didn’t fit well with their political ideologies.'], ['\xa0Idea of a nation in crisis '], ['The fascist movements almost always asserted that the nation (which they alternatively employ to refer to either the whole country or a particular ethnic group) was in a state of profound crisis resolvable only through a “radical political transformation”.\xa0 They were highly convinced of their self-professed mission” to save the nation”, and evoked the need to take drastic action against a nation’s ‘inner enemies’. Their vision of the newly created man or woman was the one “uncontaminated” by the selfish desires for “individual rights” and “self-expression” and only devoted for realization of the renewed nation’s destiny.'], ['It should be noted that despite the aforementioned similarities, each fascist movement had its own unique ideology based on its own cultural and intellectual narrative that justifies the ideal of the movement. Some fascist movements had certain racial or ethnic group as object of hatred or scapegoat such as the Nazi’s anti-Semitic ideology.'], ['However, some latter ones did not have this sort of hostility. Instead, they emphasized the need to preserve distinct ethnic identities, and preached a “love of difference” which some scholars call it “differentialism”. And they cite the right-wing movements in France during the 1990s as an example of this form of fascism.'], ['In general, the present rising appetite for totalitarianism, albeit with new form, seems not limited to Europe, but rather is fast spreading across the globe. As highlighted above, the sole ambition of all totalitarian regimes in whatever form they come – neo-fascism, neo-communism (may be the so-called “revolutionary democracy”?), neo-Nazism, apartheid – is to remold and re-engineer societies in the image of their own predilection via a police state that attempts to strictly control the life and soul of citizens.'], ['More often than not, totalitarianism provides a one-size-fits-all solution to all human, social and historical ills that denies the unique nature and experience of each human being and social collectivity. Thus, it is inherently insensitive, inhumane, immoral and highly repressive of human potential.'], ['It goes without saying that such a repressive rule will always result in heavy human suffering, inefficient use of available human and social resources, greater inequality, and many more other social malfeasances which ultimately condemn citizens to a lower state of emotional, spiritual as well as physical life.'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'March 27, 2013', 'Header': 'The challenges of keeping  the‘Ethiopian spirit’ alive', 'news_paragraphs': [['A resolute Ethiopian spirit was, not long ago, a nationwide landmark; it is now only occasional. To restore it back the country must be served with substantive democracy, justice, freedom and prosperity '], ['\xa0Taye Negussie (PhD)'], ['Many observers were taken by a surprise at the excitement and elation of the Ethiopian fans displayed in all the matches the Ethiopian football team, affectionately known as the\xa0\xa0\xa0 Wallias, played at the recently held 29th African cup of nations in South Africa.'], ['The feeling was not limited only to the colorful fans present at the stadiums where the matches were played; it swept over the whole nation ever since the announcement in October 2012 of the qualification of the Ethiopian team to the Africa’s cup of nation after 31 years of absence. Ethiopians of all ages and walks of life were seen in the streets of many towns and cities face-painted and draped in the tri-color of the national flag, chanting traditional songs and screaming and dancing jubilantly.'], ['Such type of international contest inciting intense national feelings among the citizens of the contestant nations is no stranger but the intensity of the emotion varies based on the degree of strength of nationalistic sentiment with the concerned citizens.'], ['Of course, Ethiopians are renowned to be people with deep nationalistic sentiment and ostensibly maintaining a unique sense of identity. This may possibly arise from a conviction regarding Ethiopia’s long and impressive history and immense contribution to human civilization.'], ['To name but few, Ethiopia is well-celebrated for being:\xa0 one of the very few\xa0 nations to be repeatedly mentioned in the scriptures of the two great monotheistic religions of Christianity and Islam; a land\xa0 of the great ancient civilizations of Axum , Gondar and Harar; a location of\xa0 the mysterious Lalibela Rock hewn churches; a shelter to the first persecuted Muslim refugees from Saudi Arabia known as the Sahabahs at the very early rise of Islam; the source of the world’s historical and longest Nile\xa0 river;\xa0 the site where the modern human species had first been found (Lucy); a great deal\xa0 contributor to the world’s stock of food seed (most challenging discovery believed to surpass even the latest scientific discoveries for it demanded the sacrifices of thousands of human lives, according to Jared Diamond’s book ‘Guns, Germs, and Steel’); a country possessing its own written alphabet and a unique calendar; a home for diverse ethnic groups, traditions and customs; last but not least,\xa0 endowed with spectacular natural rich, to some of which, admittedly,\xa0 the UNESCCO has accorded the entitlement of World Heritage.'], ['Understandably, this sentiment of uniqueness and the pervading organic solidarity among the people built on historical necessity seems to generate a ‘collective spiritual energy’ which I call the ‘Ethiopian sprit’. This seemingly ‘mystical’ spirit appears to be an-all powerful force which can neither be created nor completely destroyed at will; for it is grounded in the inexorable connectedness of life.'], ['\xa0Twists and turns'], ['However, in the course of Ethiopian history this never-dying spirit has seen its own twists and turns. One such period of time that it has plummeted to a historical low-level was during the fury of revolutionary transition in 1991 from the socialist Derg regime to the ruling Ethiopian People’s Democratic Front (EPRDF) led government during which Ethiopians were believed to have been caught up in a deep identity crisis due to a resurgence of ethnic sentiment. At this juncture, displaying any sort of nationalist sentiment was often decried as a mark of ‘chauvinistic tendency’.'], ['In the meantime, two contestant ideological groups, roughly identified as the central characters, were formed: the inherited Ethiopian nationalist identity, and the current hegemonic ethnic-centered identity. Evidently, these contending groups diverged diametrically in such basic issues as the account of Ethiopian history, the conception of ‘proper identity per se’ and the government best suited to the Ethiopian situation among others.'], ['Besides the political struggle, cultural or symbolic contests have turned out to be another major field of strife between these two contending groups. In this regard, the inherited nationalist protagonists reflected their deep commitment for the past national identity through, for example, flying the old plain tri-color national flag on important occasions, featuring sentimental artistic activities, mainly through music that rekindle nationalist sentiment such as Ethiopia’s pop sensation Tewdros Kassahun, a.k.a Tedi Afro’s various songs, and upholding the passionate slogan ‘Long live Ethiopia!.'], ['Millennium and a dam '], ['By in large, the Ethiopian spirit has been an occasional occurrence since the last regime change in 1991 than a distinguishable landmark of the nation, as was the case before that. The unexpected border war of the 2001 fought between Ethiopia and Eritrea was a turning point in the revival of the ‘Ethiopian spirit’. This was followed by the impact of the historic but tragic National Election in 2005, which, although not widely recognized, had reinforced the momentum of national solidarity when armed state forces gunned down close to 200 protestors in the streets of Addis Ababa.\xa0 Apparently, the lesson for the ruling EPRDF from its poor performance in that election appeared to be its weak focus over the wider Ethiopian agenda. Thus, in latter years the government shifted its focus along that line. The Ethiopian Millennium of September 2007 – marked in an extraordinary way – was an apparent attempt to reaffirm to the public this implicit shift in practice, if not in policy.'], ['In the wake of the occasion, the government established a special department that deals with the affairs of the Diaspora. Subsequently, the Diaspora Ethiopians were highly encouraged with incentives such as lease free land and tax free imports of vehicles and other heavy machineries to come to their homeland for the celebration of the Ethiopian Millennium. Yet, widely held opinions show that this was contrived by the government in order to come to terms with the allegedly disgruntled Ethiopian Diaspora deemed as the archetypical torch bearer of the inherited Ethiopian nationalist value. In the end it all turned out to be largely a failure.'], ['Moreover, the ruling EPRDF also seized the occasion as a casual moment to relate its unprecedented account of Ethiopian history and its affiliated stance thereby adopted. By acknowledging the over 3000-year Ethiopian history narrative, it declared its ambition of putting Ethiopia back to its glorious historical position–hence the advent of the mantra, “the Ethiopian Renaissance”.\xa0 '], ['This was followed by unprecedented government engagement in grander national programs and activities, albeit with some serious limitations: the re-building program of the Addis Ababa city, massive investments in national infrastructural development, and the initiation for the construction of the Great Millennium Renaissance Dam, to name a few. Critics decry this move as government’s ploy only to win over the sympathy of the people and buy some time. However, in my view, it also ought to be seen as possibly holding some economic and national symbolic values in the long-term, if not in the short-term. Sadly enough, though, the move falls miserably short in the political arena.'], ['\xa0United in grief '], ['The other rare occasion that brought the Ethiopian spirit to light was the national grief that engulfed the country following the deaths of important figures and national icons such as artists Tilahun Gessese, Afework Tekle and Sibhat Gebre Egziaber and, of course, the late Prime Minister Meles Zenawi. These unfortunate occasions could be counted, to a degree, as landmark occasions for reigniting, consciously or unconsciously, the Ethiopia-ness sentiment. It is worth mentioning that whereas the late Premier was accused of being one of the architects of the divisive ethnic politics in some quarters, ironically his passing triggered a nationwide grief that unified the people across the country, if in grief.'], ['The steady resurgence of the Ethiopian-ness sentiment evident in recent events and circumstances – whether for good or bad – could be, after all, an ideal testimony of the indestructability of the ‘Ethiopian spirit’ lost in the past two decades. And yet, for this renewed spirit to become more meaningful and thriving, it must be further nurtured with true and substantive democracy, justice, freedom and prosperity delivered to all Ethiopian people and societies on fairly and equitable basis at all times.'], ['\xa0'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'February 26, 2013', 'Header': 'The apathy of the intelligentsia:   who is to blame?', 'news_paragraphs': [['“The measure of life, after all, is not its duration but its donation” Corrie Ten Born '], ['Taye Negussie (PhD)'], ['Since time immemorial those relatively fair-minded and more prudent states have actively sought ideas, opinions and advices from those widely regarded by the society as men of wisdom, knowledge and insights to pass judicious decisions on weighty matters.\xa0'], ['In the contemporary democratic societies, this long-standing governance tradition has been systematized and institutionalized in the form of actively functioning independent civic organizations such as the free-media, tertiary-level educational institutions, and panel of independent scholars advising governments on certain policy issues.'], ['These civic institutions are generally categorized under a generic term, the ‘Third-sector’, while the government and the market forces represent the ‘First’ and “Second’ sectors respectively. The notion of the ‘Third-sector’ largely draws on the basic tenet of democracy – government of the people, by the people and for the people – in which the civic force, by way of generating viable alternative ideas and values that influence public policies and the praxis of governments, constitutes the mechanism of checks-and-balances in the operation of the government.'], ['It goes without saying that given the opportunity and capability it posses, the intelligentsia, (the relatively well-educated segment of the society) is rightly regarded as the most prominent group in the constituency of the civic force. Not least, the intelligentsia ought to provide the intellectual raw materials – ideas, questions or critical reflections to mention few – to better understand, inform and alleviate the varied social problems facing a given society.'], ['Historical evidences are quite strong demonstrating the prime role played by the intelligentsia, particularly in the developing part of the world, in the bitter struggle against colonial powers and repressive regimes. In direct contrast to this remarkable historical accomplishment, many observers now lament on the intelligentsia’s heartbreaking stance of passiveness, helplessness, indifference, apathy, complacency to issues ranging from protecting own professional interests to advocating for truth, justice, freedom and the well-being of humanity and the planet earth at large. It should be borne in mind that though the problem is persistent in many parts of the world, it is far more pronounced in countries where autocratic regimes reign.'], ['Many social scientists have attempted to offer some explanation for the problem of apparent apathy exhibited by the intelligentsia. The most common one being the structural explanation which attributes the problem to the unbearable impact of dominant macro political, economic and cultural forces of oppressive regimes on the consciousness and actions of the intelligentsia.'], ['Very few deny the fact that permissiveness for plurality of ideas and tolerance to critics and dissenting views is the sine qua non for progressive and civilized governance. A functional constitution, the supremacy of the rule of law, and the varied legislative tools for ensuring freedom, justice and equality are some of the mechanisms that lay the ground for a truly democratic governance. According to the structuralists, however, these apparently good governance practices in the context of autocratic regimes largely remain at the rhetoric level.'], ['In the account of the structural perspective, in today’s world where the notion of democracy is presumed to be a globally governing idea, autocratic regimes have apparently been compelled to resort to an indirect method of repression. This is done mainly by increasingly narrowing the democratic space with the intent of neutralizing the institutional underpinnings necessary for democracy.'], ['In this connection, the government apparatus consistently strives to paralyze and co-opt such fundamental democratic institutions as free-press and autonomous civic organizations via draconian laws, manipulative administrative measures, bureaucratic red-tape, abusive professional interferences and by incubating bogus ‘civic organizations’ which reportedly rival the genuine ones. The structuralists believe that these repressive government tactics solely led to the de-politicization and disfranchisement of the intelligentsia.'], ['Furthermore, the structuralist perspective invokes the coercive political culture, exclusionary ideologies and top-down governance, false and intimidating propaganda, traumatic historical experience, weak economic conditions as the structural realities which have seriously undermined the initiative and activism of the intelligentsia.'], ['The upshot of the above argument is that the current resigned and passive attitude evident among a significant section of the intelligentsia in Ethiopia is something solely attributable to the workings of the repressive macro-forces.'], ['Notwithstanding the substantial impact of the larger social forces, however, I contend that the macro viewpoint has uncharacteristically reduced the intelligentsia to a level of mere ‘unthinking’ and solely receptive persons who only give in unconditionally to the will of the presumed external influences.\xa0 By doing so, it inadvertently provides some sham ground for an excuse to cover up individual weaknesses and thereby absolve the duty of self-responsibility.'], ['Of course, macro forces undoubtedly have their own share of influence by way of providing possibilities and opportunities that would either facilitate or constrain individual actions. However, no matter how powerful macro forces tend to be, there will always be some room for individuals to have a stake in the course of life they choose to pursue –a certain degree of possibility to exercise their “free-will”. Here it suffices to note the general maxim, “if there is a will, there is a way.”'], ['Hence, I believe the current passive and apathetic state of existence which typifies the intelligentsia in this part of the world is to some extent the destructive effect due to the operation of a host of individually-based defective characteristic tendencies quite evident in the day-to-day life with a number of intellectuals.'], ['To mention but a few: living in consistent fear; low-self esteem and poor confidence to publicly air out one’s views, opinions and stances; enslavement to the mentality of factionalism and clientalism; victim to the distorted philosophy of hedonism (pleasure-seeking behavior) and the subsequent excessive greed and selfishness which possibly yields such behaviors as engagement in despicable opportunistic and corrupt actions,\xa0 commodity one’s noble profession with little regard to intellectual curiosity, passion, aspiration and ethics, strive only for rank promotion and higher position, place personal comfort over moral duties and societal responsibilities.'], ['Thus, for the sake of fairness and completeness as well as to come up with the commensurate appropriate remedial measures, we must recognize the complimentary roles played by both the macro-forces–the structural influences–and the micro-forces–the self-imposed misdirected individual choices and actions–that might have resulted in the current rather worrisome irresponsible, passive and apathetic behaviors that characterize a sizable number of the intelligentsia.'], ['\xa0'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}]
[{'Date': 'January 21, 2013', 'Header': 'Culture and Economy: what accounts for the success of Japanese Companies', 'news_paragraphs': [['\xa0'], ['‘What lies at the core of any economic action or system is a shared cultural understanding which provides stability and meanings to people’s actions’ '], ['Taye Negussie (PhD)'], ['Up until the 1980s, the dominant intellectual view in the development discourse was that culture and economy were two distinct and autonomous entities having little in common. Subsequently, certain economic management models and strategies were viewed as universal formulae readily applicable across cultures and societies. One such presumably universal economic model was the ‘economic growth approach’ which was tried in many of the then Third World Countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America, but succeeded only in a handful of countries.\xa0\xa0\xa0'], ['Nevertheless, the failure of the ‘economic growth approach’ and many more similar models fortunately inspired countless academicians and policy makers to immerse themselves in deep soul-searching efforts in order to come up with some reasonably workable ideas.'], ['Out of these efforts was the idea that economy and culture were two unrelated and independent variables, which was proven erroneous. In the mean time, the revival of economic sociology in the 1980s had reaffirmed the idea that, indeed, culture and economy are two highly intertwined, hand in glove entities.'], ['Furthermore, economic sociology has revealed that what lies at the core of any economic action or system is a shared cultural understanding which provides stability and meanings to people’s actions. Moreover, the cultural framework helps governments and people to make sense of the existing economic situations, set reasonable goals and devise the most appropriate economic strategies and programs.'], ['Along with this, the miraculous pace of economic growth in Japan especially after WW II and the subsequent follow up of its close neighbours in East Asia, known as the Asian Tiger Economies (Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan,) in the 1980s in its footstep, and soon after the unravelling of the phenomenal economic growth across East Asia –Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia, China, and Vietnam, among others -had further reaffirmed the theory of ‘culture-economy nexus’ making it the most credible and well-received intellectual argument.'], ['It is against this background that this piece (which offers some insights on the Japanese wisdom of model adoption) attempts to explore how the ‘culture-economy nexus’ transpires by taking the case of ‘Corporate Culture’ in Japanese companies as one of the major force contributing to their phenomenal success.'], ['It is widely believed that the Japanese companies’ Corporate Culture (kigyo bunka) – the predominant values, ideas and attitudes shaping the consciousness, actions and management of Japanese companies, their staff and employees – has largely been influenced by the cultural processes and legacies of pre-modern Japan.'], ['The two notable indigenous social institutions which by and large influenced the Japanese corporate consciousness are:\xa0 the supreme ideal of serving the nation and thus the society espoused by merchants as well as bureaucrats that could be traced to the ideal of the Tokugawa Shogunate bureaucracies (1600-1868); and the Confucianist conception of the social order (many parts working together for the common good); its acceptance of hierarchy and emphasis on social identity were the cultural legacies easily adapted as an ideology for modern organizations.'], ['The Japanese corporate cultures tend to share some common values and norms concerning such essential matters as profits, dividends, contractual obligations, and company personnel practices that differ from the conceptions of their western counterparts. These unique features of Japanese corporations reflect the values and characteristics of the larger Japan’s social and economic systems. The following common company practices could be taken as the unique features which constitute the Japanese corporate culture.'], ['Corporate ideology: Each Japanese company generally possesses its own unique ideology often expressed in the company’s song, in essays by company elders, question-answer competition session which mainly contain the company’s primary goals and values, in annual celebrations and public events. The company’s ideology is the mechanism by which the spirit of the company as a big family with shared common interests, comradeship, and long-term social relationships is nurtured.\xa0 The key values in the company’s ideology are social harmony, cooperation and hard work.'], ['Corporate decision making: The ringi system, a process of decision making through the use of circular letter is another unique system that characterizes the Japanese company. Each planned measure of the company has to pass through intense informal negotiations among concerned employees or departments including external stakeholders. Subsequently, final decisions on the proposed measures are often unanimous. Although this system is somewhat relatively more time consuming, it is very much participatory carrying the voices of each and every employee and consequently leading to a prompt and smooth implementation of decisions.'], ['Corporate recruitment: Until very recently, the general pattern of employment of workers and management staff, especially among large corporations, was a long-term or life-time phenomenon. This long-term employment system helped the employees to have a sense of security, and feeling of belongingness, and hence the resultant strong commitment to the company.'], ['Reciprocal relationship (giri): In Japanese culture, giri is a social norm that obliges the observance of reciprocal relationships – to help those who have helped one; to do favors for those from one has received favors. The concept implies a moral force that compels members of society to engage in socially expected reciprocal activities. Accordingly, one of the most common ways of showing gratitude to a company’s best customer is entertainment (settai) which takes a form of invitation of a substantial meal at Japanese or Western restaurants, followed by one or more visits to Japanese-style hostess bars. This custom serves as a moral force that strengthens the cliental relationships among business partners.'], ['Seniority System: Employee’s rank, salary and qualification within a firm (especially before the 1980’s) were based on the workers’ length of services in the company. The seniority system enabled companies to benefit from strong worker loyalty and stable working environment. However, since the 1980s, perhaps due mainly to rapidly changing technologies, and fierce international competition, the seniority system appears to be gradually replaced by an emphasis on talents and abilities.'], ['Kaizen: As discussed in the cover story of this magazine, it is another element of the Japanese corporate culture which has humanized the workplace and at the same time enhanced the level of productivity in Japanese companies.'], ['To conclude, in my view the most important lesson that we could grasp from the wisdom of Japanese corporate culture is that instead of adopting grossly align economic policy and management fads now and then, one must, first and foremost, look inward and identify those positive indigenous cultural assets and legacies (rather than discrediting entirely what is all one’s past), and then blend them with a prudently selected align economic model so as to succeed in the pursuit of a grand socio-economic development program.'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'December 14, 2012', 'Header': 'The peril of ‘Economism’', 'news_paragraphs': [['\xa0'], ['How many of us know that this rather poor continent, Africa, is ironically one of the biggest markets for the world-class whisky liquor company since long? '], ['Taye Negussie (PhD)'], ['One of the renowned economists of our time, Jeffrey D. Sachs, in his recent article entitled The Lost Generation written to the Project Syndicate website had as an opening statement: “A country’s economic success depends on the education, skills and health of its population.”'], ['More recently, another contributor to the same website, David Fine, in an article entitled Inside Africa’s Consumer Revolution, applauds Africa’s “accelerated growth” since 2000 which has made it to be the “world’s second-fastest-growing region.” He argues: “with rapid economic growth, have come more prosperous consumers –and vice versa”.'], ['As can be inferred from the above quotes, Sachs seems to have regarded humans as a means or instrument for a country’s economic ambition than is the case otherwise; while in David Fine’s case, the most potent testimony for Africa’s recent spectacular advance is the alleged emergence of “more prosperous consumers”. Alas, only God knows who these prosperous consumers are that Fine is alluding to – whether it refers to further increment of consumption by those predatory elites who prey upon the ever impoverishing African poor or a miraculous new consumption phenomenon by imagined “prosperous” mass citizens of Africa. How many of us know that this rather poor continent is ironically one of the biggest markets for the world-class whisky liquor company since long?'], ['Materialism: the triumph of ‘economism’'], ['The quotes unmistakably exemplify the fact that in today’s world the prime measure of progress is that of material acquisition and consumption either at individual or national level–materialism. It is this materialistic ideology which I consider here as ‘economism’.'], ['Despite the portrayal of materialism as a supreme human value, however, the philosophical question of what gives life meaning has never been conclusively answered. Thus, it is quite possible that different people ascribing different meanings to varied dimensions of their life.'], ['Classical as well as contemporary philosophers underscore that the most common principal candidates for the purpose of life are, among others, eking out a means of subsistence, living according to certain moral prescriptions, working hard, finding happiness, contributing for others, indulging in accumulation and conspicuous consumption, leading aesthetic, creative and other higher forms of life.'], ['In light of this fact, one may raise quite a legitimate question: why out of these numerous possibilities only materialism was singled out as a prime measure of success? I would say this may largely be due to, first and foremost, the very nature of the working mechanism of the current predominant capitalist economic system which is rooted in the persistent activities of production and consumption. Secondly, this characteristically materialistic ideology has been carried over across communities and societies along with the rapid expansion and globalization of the Anglo-Saxon variety of capitalism.'], ['It is quite clear that the functioning and effectiveness of a capitalistic economic system solely rests in the legitimacy of the dogma of materialism. Historically, the task of preaching materialism far and wide had befallen, more than any other social scientific disciplines, on the discipline of mainstream economics.'], ['Accordingly, conventional economics since its inception worked earnestly and relentlessly to lay down the intellectual and technical framework of capitalism. For this reason, I am tempted to call mainstream economics “the religion of capitalism.”'], ['Apparently in acknowledgement of its successful mission accomplishment, the discipline in turn has been reciprocated with commensurate material and moral trophies – think of its treatment as one of the most valued academic discipline; its candidacy among the few intellectual disciplines qualifying for the world’s most privileged Nobel Prize; its enjoyment of wider popularity among the larger public, and many more.'], ['Nevertheless, this is by no means to deny the immensely valuable contributions made by innumerable academic and professional economists for the betterment of humanity. Deeply discontented with largely abstract and ideological conventional economic theories, some critical economists plainly expressed their dissatisfaction with the status quo – as exemplified in the self-proclaimed stance of, ‘I dissent by the Nobel Laureate economist Joseph E, Stiglitz. Even some ventured to institute competing disciplinary fields with alternative views and methodologies which ushered in the establishment of, for example, ‘institutional economics’ and ‘behavioral economics’ or tended to favor the views of such relatively new disciplines as neuroconomics, economic psychology or economic sociology.'], ['While, in the public arena, a number of critical economists have resigned from their highly paying international civil servant positions (such as the World Bank) only to engage themselves in enlightening humanity by exposing beyond the scene workings of the hegemonic capitalist economic institutions.'], ['Human and environmental costs'], ['The ascendance of overly materialistic mode of life over the other equally invaluable aspects of life is bound to put humanity in clash with himself and Mother Nature – ultimately leading to a rather catastrophic social, cultural, political and environmental consequences.'], ['In the social and cultural realm, the catastrophes take on the form of increasingly impoverished life emptied of ethical and spiritual contents; inhumane exploitation and inequality; discontentment and insecurity in life; ‘reification of commodities’; ‘tyranny of technology’; ‘commodification of man’ or what psychoanalyst Erich Fromm calls the ‘personality market’ – attaching more value to personality instead of skills and other essential human qualities.'], ['In the political sphere, it transpires in the monopoly of power by economic elites; the rise of totalitarianism – justifying their economic agenda by undermining issues of democratic and human rights; and proliferation of resource-related local, national and international conflicts.While in the environmental sphere, the apparent consequence manifests itself in, among others, environmental degradation, pollution, depletion of non-renewable resources, and manipulation of indispensable\xa0 natural laws in pursuit of profitas practiced by the so-called ‘genetic sciences’.'], ['All being said, however, the upshot of the above arguments – rather than a nostalgic pronouncement of a traditional and austere mode of existence – is to draw our attention back to the age-old wisdom of a balanced, integrated and holistic human existence that places equal value on both the non-material as well as material aspects of life.'], ['Taye Negussie (PhD) is an Assistant Professor of Sociology at Addis Ababa University. He can be reached at tayesosa@yahoo.com'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'November 19, 2012', 'Header': 'The morphology of ‘bad governance’', 'news_paragraphs': [['“Bad governance is an equal sharing of misery.” –Shiv Khera'], ['\xa0Taye Negussie(PHD)'], ['Too often, oppressors in unjust, repressive, unaccountable and undemocratic governance systems seem to be trapped in a mental delusion that they would gain at the expense of the oppressed. This is a gross misconception since the very act of dehumanizing a fellow human being necessarily entails the robbing of humanity both from the oppressors as well as the oppressed. Generally speaking, an oppressive social system is an all-loosing game where no one would stand to gain. A telling example for the final fate of an oppressive system would be the current on-going civil war ravaging almost all the Syrian people indiscriminately.'], ['The need for a total transformation of an oppressive system had been underlined by the late Paulo Ferrire–the greatest educationalist of the 20th century–in his book ‘Pedagogy of the Oppressed’. Ferrire argued true liberation is not a matter of taking turns in oppression whereby yesterday’s oppressed become today’s new oppressors and vice versa. As a matter of necessity, true liberation should bestow freedom onto all–both oppressors and oppressed as well–by bringing annihilation to the unjust system of oppression and repression from the political scene.'], ['\xa0'], ['Oppressors –‘no free’ beings'], ['Basing their analysis on historical and contemporary cases (such as Hitler’s and Gadafi’s regimes and other dictatorial governments), social critiques maintain that the underlying forces\xa0 which propel bad governance are a complex set of emotional and psycho-social pathologies that grip mainly the mental faculties of dictators and their henchmen.'], ['Among the psychological tyrannies which distort the personality and world views of oppressors are, among others, superiority complex, or inferiority complex (which they strive to make up through the artificial ego-boosters of power, wealth and status), fear, greed, stereotyping and prejudice, mistrust of others, hatred, contemptuous attitude, grievance, remorse and vengefulness.'], ['These negative emotions are bound to turn oppressors into persons devoid of compassion and sympathy, insensitive to others’ suffering and highly aggressive which would eventually lead them to commit acts of oppression and repression in general and extreme violence and cruelty against their perceived “enemies” in particular.'], ['In describing the insanity of bad governance, the well-reputed Indian author Shiv Khera wrote:\xa0 “An irresponsible government is blind to the discontent of its people. Like a mad bull it attacks anyone who dares to stand on its path.”'], ['\xa0Modus operandi '], ['The principal tools readily used by oppressors to impose their will on the passive masses are brutal physical force and a fully monopolized media.'], ['The greatest ability of their propaganda machinery lies in playing and manipulating with people’s emotions–a sort of “sensational rule”. In this regard, the media carry out two major functions:\xa0 undertaking a “destructive” campaign ( by broadcasting some alien and sometimes unethical\xa0 “entertainment” programs and deafening people with white lies, empty propaganda and trivial issues, all of which in the final resort make the media recipients more confused, politically desensitized, submissive, uncritical and solely receptive citizens.'], ['Another fairly common strategy improvised by oppressive regimes to keep their repressive system up and running is by vigorously maintaining the “culture of fear”.\xa0 In order to implant fear, conflict and confusion among the masses, the relevant government organs fabricate “artificial” enemies when “real” enemies apparently do not exist. Adolph Hitler wrote in his autobiography, “In order to remain in power, create fictions enemies if you have to, and show that your country is in danger. It scares people and when people are afraid, it is easy to keep them enslaved.”'], ['Oppressive regimes are also notorious for their brutal and repressive acts against independent press and authentic civic communities. This is no surprising since free circulation of ideas and dialogue, and organization of citizens would yield fairly enlightened and appropriately empowered citizens competent enough to stand for their rights, monitor the courses of actions of the government, and elect the right and responsible leaders, which all go against the wishes of oppressors.'], ['Bad governance always aspires to enslave humanity and destroy freedom. It accomplishes this objective by enacting draconian rules and laws which get in the ways of the growth and flowering of autonomous civic communities. In doing so, it destroys the very foundation of democracy and deprives it of its raison-d’etre, for civil societies are believed to produce and distribute important social values such as responsibility, authority, loyalty, justice and caring which serve as the bedrock of democracy.'], ['It goes without saying that the natural outcome born out of the rule of bad governance are a multitude of social ills that pervade the lives of people which include, among others, abject poverty, widespread corruption, inequality, injustice, humiliation, loss of freedom, liberty and dignity, hopelessness, desperation, deep social divisions and civil conflicts.'], ['\xa0The cure–humanization of politics'], ['For politics to be of any utility to humanity, it is high time that we scrap away the outmoded, divisive and dehumanizing Machiavellian conception of politics which regards politics at best as a vocation in which only the mischievous, the cruel and the crooked survive and thrive.'], ['In order to serve its higher purpose, politics as we know it desperately needs to be humanized. This is all predicated in liberation of mind from negative psychological bondage and the incorporation of such positive human values as forgiveness, truth, love, humility, trust, hope, enlightenment and critical thinking (a constant search in acknowledgement of people’s incompleteness) in the realm of politics which are bound to lubricate the political machinery and render it a human face that lay the foundation for sustainable human, social and economic progress.'], ['As cases in point, for instance, forgiveness implies empathy and compassion, fairness and justice based on the premise that nobody is perfect and we are all humans and make mistakes which paves the way for mutual understanding, conciliation, cooperation and solidarity. Enlightenment in its part reproduces more conscious and critical citizens. The more enlightened citizens are the stronger, more confident and assertive they become. As the Eastern wisdom has it, ‘enlightened citizens are easier to be led, but harder to be ruled’.'], ['Let me conclude today’s piece by quoting a saying which I feel reaffirms the importance of a humanistic, compassionate, sympathetic and empathetic politics: “Bigger hearts are better than swollen heads.” –Anonymous.'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'October 2, 2012', 'Header': 'How the legacy of a political leader ought to be viewed', 'news_paragraphs': [['A fairly realistic assessment of the legacies of a departing statesman ought to analytically disaggregate individual and public personalities of the departed '], ['Taye Negussie (PhD)'], ['\xa0'], ['Following the untimely death of the late Ethiopian prime minster Meles Zenawi, debate has been raging on the legacy of his statesmanship as one of the most influential leaders in recent Ethiopian history who left his notable mark in the configuring of the current Ethiopian state.\nThe overwhelming views in the ongoing debates mainly focus on his presumed personal and leadership qualities; the performance of the economy; the relative standing of the country in the international forum, and the track record of the government in the arena of democracy during his tenure as head of government.\nBased on the nature of their alignment with the government, most of the tones of the commentaries sounded either overly positive or negative in painting the legacy of the former premier. Those few apparently neutral commentaries in their part have been employing disproportionally formalistic statistical indices concerning socio-economic performances which are essentially weak in depicting realities beyond the numeric figures.\nA fairly realistic valuation of the legacies of a departing statesman ought to analytically disaggregate the two highly intertwined and yet at the same time different aspects of a political personality: individual personality, and public personality.\nWhat I call the individual personality of a political figure comprises, among others, his individually-held values and ideals, lived-experience, intellectual and emotional intelligences, level of knowledge and wisdom, charisma, commitment in pursuit of truth, technical and ideological sophistication, persuasive skills, love and respect for humanity and nature. These individual qualities do indeed have an immense symbolic significance.\nNevertheless, a much clearer understanding of whether or not a political leader had mined his individual assets for a larger public benefit needs to establish, first and foremost, the level of influence he exerts within his political group; the power and capacity of the members of his political group to enact and\xa0 implement principles and strategies proportionate with the leader’s and the group’s ideological and political outlook and, last but not least, the enabling or constraining internal or external environment for putting into action the deeply held-values and ideals.\nThe Second aspect of a political personality which sheds better light onto the real and long-lasting legacy of a statesman is that of his public personality – the collectively shared values and ideals, political insights and understanding, hopes and vision of a political leader with his ideological compatriots, often united under a single political group or party.\nOften this public personality is symbolized and represented as the dominant paradigm firmly upheld by the political personality and his political group or entity.\nInvariably, the dominant paradigm is bound to justify and legitimize the ideological and political stances of a political entity; and it is often regarded as far more effective and enduring than any form of material legacy in structuring peoples’ behavior. Thus, it is no wonder that any political entity toils and moils to install its dominant paradigm ostensibly as a cardinal framework readily employable by its followers and the public at large to view through their life-world.\nThe dominant paradigm of a political entity is an essence of its basic assumption of the outstanding social problems of the society and the hegemonic idea supposedly the best prescription to address the said problem.\nThe commonest way of institutionalizing one’s dominant paradigm is by implanting it as “public consciousness” or “mass culture” which would significantly shape the thinking framework of the mass and thereby direct their values, outlooks, attitudes, norms and daily practices.\nOnce a political entity assumes governmental power (through whatsoever means available), it transforms its dominant paradigm into reality by restructuring the form, nature and practices of the government (depending on the circumstances), enacting legislative acts and directives, designing and implementing government policies,\xa0 programs, and projects in line with its dominant paradigm.\nAn illustrative example which best demonstrates the significance of a political personality’s dominant paradigm as his/her overriding and singularly long-lasting legacy is that of the cases of the former US president Ronald Reagan and the British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher.\nIt is quite evident that these prominent political personalities of the past have continued to influence the economic thinking of policy makers and the daily activities and practices of ordinary citizens as well as the working mechanisms of economic institutions and organizations for the years to come through their pro-rich conservative economic paradigm which came to be known as “Regonomics” and “Thatcherism” respectively.\nIn the same token, the legacy of the late Ethiopian premier would best be attributed to the dominant paradigm upheld, promoted and disseminated by himself and his political party as well as the regime he served at the helm of the power hierarchy.\nThe widely circulating views current in the intellectual analysis with regard to the historical legacies of the three successive Ethiopian regimes could roughly be represented as follows.\nDuring the Haile Selasies regime, the dominant paradigm, which Haile Silasie sought to instill in the public’s consciousness is the ideology which attempted to render a feature of “divinity and sanctity” to the monarchical rile by disseminating such self-constructed legend as “Seyume Egziabher”, which literally means the “God-anointed ruler of the land”.\nWhereas, the dominant paradigm of the Dergue regime coined in the slogan “revolutionary Ethiopia or death!” could be characterized as that of “uncritical”, “blind” and “undemocratic nationalism”.\nAs to the current EPRDF regime, its dominant paradigm can be deciphered in the notion of “Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples” which has vigorously attempted to institutionalize self-consciously “ethnicist” sentiment in regional governance, public values, norms, organizations and daily practices.'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'September 24, 2012', 'Header': 'The delusion of ‘radical’ identity politics', 'news_paragraphs': [['“Identity is a matter of setting up similarities and differences between people”\xa0 '], ['Taye Negussie (PHD)'], ['Since the end of the Cold War, we have been witnessing a resurgence of a ‘radical’ identity politics–a political passion which aims to create a social order supposedly under a single, ‘master’ \xa0identity to an effective exclusion of many more other worthwhile forms of social identities.'], ['In its ambition to bring a certain identity to prominence, a fanatical identity politics inadvertently ends up imposing a “real” or “imagined” and politically expedient form of identity onto all members of a social entity irrespective of their individual uniqueness. More often than not, the targets of these “radical” ideologies are the ancient identities of ethnicity, religion and race among others.'], ['Don’t get me wrong, though; I dare say this with the full awareness of (and even feeling sympathetic to) those moderate social movements which strive for the cause of their legitimate rights while acknowledging the relative significance of all other identities.'], ['I would say what lies behind the passion for ‘radical’ ideologies of identities are often a gross misconception or incompetence to grasp the true nature of social identity–its multiplicity, complexity, fluidity and dynamism.'], ['All recent atrocities – think of mass killings and genocides – committed against humans by their human brethren in places like former Yugoslavia, Serbia, Bosnia, Kosovo, Rwanda, Somalia, Iraq and to a certain extent in Kenya and Ethiopia (in the early 1990s) and considerable violence against innocent people in many more other places are powerful reminders of what will eventually be borne out of an unfounded, narrow, illusory and faulty conception of identity.'], ['Richard Jenkins, one of the noted authorities in the field, defines social identity as “our understanding of who we are and of who other people are, and, reciprocally, other people’s understanding of themselves and others”.'], ['If you ask someone to identify his identity you often get overwhelming responses ranging from marital status, social status, income level, and occupation to gender, ethnicity, religious or political affiliations and place of origin to psychological state, perceived ability, profession, and hobby.'], ['A closer examination of the contents of all these possible responses that concern identity will signify either the individual’s presumed personal traits or social role with an implied sense of common identity – his shared meanings, ways of life, attitudes, values and beliefs among others.'], ['Social scientists underscore that identity is not a”single thing”. People are not necessarily confined to a single identity, but can choose from a wide range of identities; even people belonging to the same social group can have quite different identities. \xa0People may also vary in identity complexity –some may have more identities than others.'], ['In the words of Edward E. Jones, “the self is not a bowling ball”. People conceive themselves as having a rich and varied set of roles at different times and in different circumstances. So the issue of identity defies simple description. One particular type of identity could reflect the individual in one setting, and still another identity could reflect the same individual in another setting which, in short, illustrates the complexity of identity of individuals.'], ['To Jenkins, identity is a matter of setting up similarities and differences between people. Thus, it is largely about negotiated meanings which are “socially constructed”; and as such it may not necessarily reflect “essential differences” between people. Depending on the nature of the social environment and personal characteristics, individuals may pick up their own presumed self-identity which defines them best in a given social context.'], ['According to Woodland, instead of people feeling part of a single identity group, their identity becomes fragmented in terms of different identity groups. These categories of identity formation are not discrete but intersect, even within the life of an individual in ways which often conflict or contradict one another. Take for example the ways in which ethnicity and class can intersect in conflicting ways, as when a minority ethnic group may share an economic location with another dominant ethnic group in which case the divide of ethnicity may lessen the sense of shared class interest, or vice versa.'], ['Similarly, people may also be torn apart by two differentially demanding identities leading to a phenomenon commonly known as a ‘moral dilemma’. A typical example of this would be when a person is faced with the difficult choice of privileging either one of two overlapping identities, say ethnicity and religious identity; to which one of these two competing identities will s/he tend to be more identified with?'], ['Those obsessed with fanatic identity politics wrongly project their view of identity onto others, thinking that it is a ‘universal reality’ applicable in all social situations.\xa0 Yet, in truth, ideas about identity are culturally-bounded. In individually-oriented culture, identity is more about an issue of a personality trait; whereas in collectivist culture identity often refers to the role of the individual in a society.'], ['An illustrative example of this in the Ethiopian context is apparently that of the difference presumed to exist between the Amhara sub-culture (reputed for its individualistic orientation) and the Tigray sub-culture (often associated with group-orientation). While in Amhara sub-culture individuals enjoy more autonomy as evidenced by D. N. Levine’s seminal scholarly work Wax and Gold and as further witnessed \xa0by the arduous attempt of the ruling EPRDF party to implant the ideology of so-called ‘democratic ethnicism’ among the Amhara people; whereas in the Tigray sub-culture the emphasis is more on the group-tie; Among the Tigray, individuals are often addressed as ‘Wodi-somebody’, meaning ‘son of so-and-so’–signifying lineage as the center of identity. Notice the probable tendency of these two diverging sub-cultures to practicing individual rights and liberal democracy, and group rights and collective democracy respectively.'], ['In short, the issue of identity development is a rather more complex, dynamic, vigorous, and contextual phenomenon in which people’s identity continually evolves and transforms in the course of unfolding events. Therefore, the idea that people possess a “fixed” and “unchanging” ‘master’ identity is just farce.'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}]
[{'Date': 'August 8, 2012', 'Header': 'Ruling through ‘soft-power’', 'news_paragraphs': [['\xa0'], ['Ethiopia is having more and more people whose self-imposed enslavement resulting from a naïve, uncritical, wholesale adoption of Western cultural values and ideals are spreading fast\xa0 '], ['Taye Negussie (PHD)\n'], ['An assessment study recently conducted on patterns of street advertisements in Addis Ababa has revealed that out of the 600 plus billboard advertisements posted on African Avenue (in-between Meskel Square and Bole Airport), more than 90 per cent were written either solely in English or English but in Amharic alphabet.'], ['Even danger signals posted on roads under construction in the town with a considerable risk on the safety of people’s lives and property are often written in English, ironically in places where the overwhelming majority of the people hardly understand the language.'], ['In a recent issue of an Amharic newspaper a private school teacher gave a depressing account of the situation that in some private schools students are strictly prohibited to communicate in their local languages while at the compounds of the school; if found communicating, they will be subject to some harsh and awkward punishment.\xa0 Oddly enough, this is happening in a country which prides itself on restoring the glory of the language, culture and history of its previously “oppressed” ethnic groups through the newly constituted Federal Government state structure.'], ['Almost all local FM radio stations devote disproportionately larger amount of their air time reporting every trivial event concerning European soccer; recounting nonsensical stories of Western celebrities–about their sexual life, clothing style, food taste etc. Once, it was reported that the head of one of the largest religious faiths in the country, in unusual way, was on hand at Bole airport to welcome the ‘celebrated’ singer Byonce on her arrival to the celebration of the Ethiopian Millennium in September, 2008.'], ['Critics view this obsession with the Western popular culture as a ploy to destruct public attention from the increasingly deteriorating economic and political crises unraveling in the country.'], ['However, a deeper reflection will lead to the understanding of their much wider implications. In my opinion, they rather represent the newly emerging frontiers of Western domination thrown out on the developing world.'], ['Some die-hard advocates of the current status quo may try to rationalize this as an inevitable consequence of the forces of ‘globalization’. But, what they fail to realize or attempt to conceal is the fact that it is, by and large, a homogenizing endeavor of Western values and ideals under the rubric of ‘globalization’.'], ['‘Globalization’, in its present form, is indeed the latest form of Western domination that might be traced in the African context as a succession of three periods, roughly periodized: the first 15th -18thcentury period of Slave Trade, in which Africa served as the main source of slaves; the second,18th-mid 20thcentury era of Colonialism characterized by direct occupation and political control achieved through aggressive military action; and, now \xa0the third contemporary period of ‘Globalization’, distinguished primarily by subtle Western domination effected through the ‘soft power’ of the Entertainment industry, the Global Media, and the Information Technology.'], ['‘Soft-power’ domination'], ['The ‘soft-power’ domination exhibits radically different features from its precursors. Unlike the older variants of domination effected by the ‘hard-power’ of physical coercion (through the barrel of the gun), the contemporary ‘soft-power’ domination is effected by changing peoples’ attitudes and transforming public consciousness–a type of rule which forces people to defeat themselves\xa0 mentally without any direct physical intervention by the supposed rulers.'], ['For instance, by glorifying Western-oriented values, norms, behaviors, linguistic, and lifestyles, the Global Media and Entertainment Industry attempts to establish the myth of the cultural “correctness” of the West–depicting everything from the West as being “correct”. Meanwhile, the IT industry, asides from its positive contribution, also produces, in its own way, another new form of dependency, mainly in linguistic and technological terms.'], ['The cultural transformation of the global media and entertainment industry is exercised through penetrating the systems of people’s everyday life which, in turn, shapes their disposition, imagined identities and day-to-day actions.'], ['A typical example of this cultural domination would be the rapidly spreading phenomenon of the “commodification” of social life–the practice of transforming every human action or event into ‘sellable commodities’.'], ['Consequently, such previously sanctified vital human phenomena and actions like identity, marriage, death, and social relations are increasingly being “commodified”. Thus, now people tend to conceive themselves not through their integrity and community contribution, but through what they own and consume; burial activities which were once communal duties, have now turned out to be ‘commodified’ services that one can buy from the burial companies according to his purchasing ability – deplorably an action that extends social stratification even after death. Nowadays, People think that the lavishness of their marriage ceremony or other vital social event would buy them a social status; even the traditional Ethiopian coffee ceremony which was purely meant for strengthening neighborhood solidarity has now been put for sale.'], ['The effects of the ‘soft-power’ influences are largely subtle for they mainly operate at the sub-conscious level. They are to a greater extent self-imposed enslavement resulting from a naïve, uncritical, wholesale adoption of Western cultural values and ideals. They are spatially- expansive, sweeping far and wide; even those previously untouched areas by the colonial rule being prey to the new ‘soft-power’ of Western rule, think Ethiopia. In terms of time, it is far more long-lasting for it is a mental-bondage which renders it extremely difficult and monumentally challenging to do away with.'], ['Be that as it may, however, it should be clear that this is not an argument for a return to tradition or complete isolation and divorce from the West; but rather to underline the crucial points of nurturing an assertive, competitive and thriving domestic intellectual and cultural capabilities, instead of simply yielding to uncritical absorption and celebration of what is everything West.']]}, {'Date': 'July 17, 2012', 'Header': 'How bad developmental state ruins good governance', 'news_paragraphs': [['\n'], ['The economy of a developmental state may grow at unprecedented pace but it often ruins democracy and good governance\xa0 '], ['\xa0'], ['Taye Negussie (PhD)'], ['Ordinarily, we think of a developmental state merely as a state that intervenes in the working of the market at instances of ‘market malfunctioning’. But, is that all what is meant by the term ‘developmental state’? Most importantly, what is the relationship like between the working of a developmental state and the realization of the purpose and objective of good governance?'], ['In today’s world of political-economic systems we can identify at least three major variants of states with varied degrees of taste to intervening in the functioning of the social order. These are: \xa0the Welfare State Model, the Keynesian Interventionist State Model, and the East-Asian Developmental State Model.'], ['The first two alternatives of interventionist state models are largely associated with the Western political-economic system. While the Welfare State Model is overwhelmingly concerned with meeting the social needs of citizens, the Keynesian Interventionist State is reputed to be a state with the gut of intervening in the functioning of the market when the economy goes into ‘bad shape’ with the intent of bringing it back to a state of ‘normalcy’.'], ['On the other hand, the East-Asian Developmental State Model, especially the Chinese and the Singaporean prototype, could be conceived as a socio-economic and political system which encompasses a much wider sphere of peoples’ social, economic and political lives.'], ['Developmental state, at least as it is practiced in East-Asia, often takes on a massive form of governance whereby the ruling political party and the bureaucratic organ single-handedly monopolize the role of originating, legislating, executing and overseeing the implementation of all public policies and statutes. This essentially frees the state from the reins of social control and renders it unaccountable to the larger public.'], ['In the case of communist states, the tendency to non-participatory governance seems to emanate largely from a political ideology grounded in the principle of ‘democratic centralism’, which by nature limits democracy only to the few ruling elites.'], ['The assumption of the developmental state is that the ruling party and the state bureaucracy could fairly and fully represent the voices, needs and demands of the public at large – a declaration of self-appointed representation. The source of this fantasy stems from a given government’s absolute arrogant attitude that treats the society as the ‘ignorant masses’.'], ['Of course, there is no denying that the track record of developmental state is complete with unprecedented pace of economic growth. However, economic growth alone without the essential elements of good governance can never be considered as true development.'], ['My argument in this piece is that by imposing the will of the government on the people – placing government before the people – the policy and practice of a developmental state undermines the intent and purpose of good governance, which is mainly understood in the sense of a genuinely functioning democracy which not only upholds rhetorically but also makes effective use of the principles of an all-embracing, compassionate, socially-sensitive, flexible, transparent and accountable governance. Nonetheless, by dictating the society what, how, where and when to do things, the very logic of developmental state stands in the way of the nature and purpose of good governance.'], ['As a matter of fact, the notion of the developmental state model first and foremost puts some fundamentals such as deeply committed nationalism, uniformity, and homogeneity which antagonize, at least in the latter cases, with the principal symptom of democracy and good governance – diversity, heterogeneity, pluralism and accommodative of\xa0 dissenting views. '], ['Crowding out public sphere '], ['The idea of public sphere designates the sphere of social life where public opinion is formed. It employs, among others, a free media and autonomous civic groups as a form of representation and the medium of public discussions to engage in free debate and exchange of opinions concerning general rules that govern social, economic and political matters.'], ['But in an attempt to carry out a totalitarian and uni-modal socio-economic policy and statutes, the developmental state is bound to narrow down the democratic space open to the larger public. It does so mainly by diminishing the public sphere in the socio-economic and political landscape.'], ['Moreover, the public sphere serves as a forum whereby the government submits public policies before the tribunal of public opinion. It is a means by which the society directs criticisms and exerts control over the working of the government.'], ['However, as the practical experiences of some developmental states clearly show by manipulating public forum and reproducing some loyal and submissive pro-state civic groups the state unduly suffocates and bureaucratizes the public sphere. Certainly, any type of manipulation of public forum and mingling in the internal affairs of civic groups dampens the confidence and eventually eliminates the capacity of the public sphere to exercise social and political power.'], ['To make matters worse those supposedly neutral public institutions which symbolize the embodiment of ‘public power’ such as the police, the military and the judiciary turn out to be the privatized sphere of developmental state authorities.'], ['Unsurprisingly, with absolute control and subjugation of the society, every conceivable public policies and statutes become a matter of back door dealings and compromises among the ruling political elites and government functionaries.\xa0 But, at the same time they have to secure at least some semblance of legitimacy through the deployment of a staged form of publicity. More often than not the activities of public communication take the highest possible priority in the functioning of the governments of developmental states.'], ['By dominating and assuming the roles of various sections of society, repressing the voices of citizens, and eliminating the “third estate”, i.e. the public sphere, the developmental state model inadvertently grants the government a license of dictatorship via non-responsive, non-transparent, and unaccountable totalitarian authority which is essentially an exact opposite to the spirit and essence of good governance.'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'June 11, 2012', 'Header': 'Listening to people – first', 'news_paragraphs': [['Effective involvement of people in the process of policy and legislative development is in the interest of both the government and the people'], ['\xa0Taye Negussie (Phd)'], ['It is not uncommon to hear people, here in Ethiopia, appreciating how fabulous a given government policy or legislation was, only if, had it been turned into concrete actions. The track record reveals that numerous policies, legislative acts and directives and even some international agreements or protocols being simply shelved and literally unknown to the larger public, or lukewarmly accepted and during implementation twisted to quite different directions. \xa0'], ['Sometimes the problem of execution goes to the extent of facing difficulties in enforcing such low level administrative directives such as government-sanctioned transport fare.'], ['Many believe the source of the problem is a pure failure by the government to enlist the voices of the people in the process of initiating and planning various policies and legislative acts.'], ['In contrast, the government’s repeated reaction to this accusation is an outright denial. The government insists it does make people ‘participate’, and claims what is lacking is the implementation capacity of law enforcement agencies.'], ['Pseudo-participation '], ['But truth be told, what the government often considers ‘participation’ is in reality the intense information disseminating activities preaching the significance and indispensability of already enacted policies and legislative acts. Needless to say, the action of informing one’s declared action is quite far from being a participatory action in the true sense of participation. At best, it may amount to a mere act of persuasion, brainwashing or post-action rationalization.'], ['Barriers of participation'], ['What precludes governments from effecting genuine participation of people when and where it is needed?\xa0 The problem begins with the shortfall of understanding concerning the gains that add up from involving people for common cause. Coupled with this is the lack of basic skills required to undertake a participatory activity.'], ['One stumbling block is the ascendancy of ‘Technocracy’ as the sole dominant world view or framework of knowledge. ‘Technocracy’ basically presupposes the supremacy of technical and specialized knowledge over any other form of knowledge yielding to the arrogant tradition of “experts know it all “and subsequently the contempt for any other form of knowledge and wisdom, which I call the ‘Tragedy of Science’.'], ['Nonetheless, as Donella Meadows rightly put it, “Great truths can only be gained by synthesizing the small truths possessed by each of us”.'], ['External pressure or influences of donors and other outsiders may also force poor country governments to bypass the lengthy, but otherwise vital component of listening to people’s voices. Evidently, almost all donor-funded projects, programs or activities primarily place premium on the needs and interest of donors. As a result, the real and felt needs of the people on the ground are sidelined.'], ['At times, presumably concern for efficiency – much less material, financial and other costs – and the fear-factor that a premature revelation of prospective policies and laws would provoke dissent and dissonance conspire against people’s participation. However, seen from the long-term vantage point both are essential costs and sacrifices worth paying.'], ['Since recently instances of copy-paste policies and legislations from unrelated foreign sources are abound, which would further make the issue of people’s participation out of question. However, laws and policies work effectively only when they are drawn from and made operate in the right context.'], ['Rationale of participation'], ['After all, why people’s voices have to be enlisted in the policy and legislative development process? What is the rationale behind the need for people’s participation?'], ['Understandably, there are quite varied pragmatic psychological, political, social and economic reasons. First and foremost, any policy or legislative action earns currency and legitimacy only when it is acknowledged, recognized and accepted by the people concerned. Lacking this popularity and legitimacy, people may feel reluctant to collaborate or in worst case stand on the way of its implementation.'], ['On the other hand, when people are consulted at the right time, i.e. from the outset, they are most likely to develop the sense of belongingness, and concern for the issue at hand. A feeling of belongingness, in turn, boosts people’s sense of confidence and control over their life situation, ultimately enhancing their sprit of empowerment.'], ['Ideas and wisdom which originate from grass root sources can also prevent or lessen the faults of the otherwise remotely designed technocratic policies or legislations. This ultimately enhances the effectiveness of policies and legislations whereby not only people collaborate but also do their utmost for their full execution.'], ['Needless to say consultation with people at the very outset of an initiative produces consensus about goals and means, and more clarity about roles and authority. Consensus and clarity often reduce conflict and delays, resulting in smoother implementation and lower overall costs.'], ['Furthermore, a genuine and effective involvement of people in the process of policy and legislative development can promote justice, equity, solidarity and fraternity. By promoting transparency and accountability and the subsequent good governance, it also prevents the unethical and evil acts of malfeasance, corruption and discrimination.'], ['The issue of peoples’ prior involvement in the policy and legislative issuance process is not a trivial act done to please or displease others. It is a crucial step which determines the legitimate, democratic, equitable and just nature of government policies and legislations, and subsequently the overall quality of governance. It is a daunting task which demands certain positive mind-set and capabilities, most notably compassion, commitment, critical knowledge and the art and skill of listening to people, which could steadily be acquired if the will to do it exists in the first place.'], ['\xa0'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'May 9, 2012', 'Header': 'Questioning the logic of “international agendas”!', 'news_paragraphs': [['A just world takes more than a mere change of “economic design” and “paradigm shift” on how to do economic business'], ['\xa0Taye Negussie (Phd)'], ['The recently released report by the United Nations Secretary-General’s High Level Panel on Global Sustainability titled ‘Resilient People, Resilient Planet: A Future Worth Choosing’ has set forth a vision of a “sustainable planet, just society, and growing economy”. In the view of the Panel’s Report, the road to attain a genuine sustainable global development – an initiative of its predecessor, the 1987 Brundtland Report, now largely deemed a failure – comes through working out a “radical redesign” of the global economy and promoting a “paradigm shift” on economic views.'], ['In its present form, the main premise of the report appears to be the stipulation of a more viable solution to the problem of “sustainable development”. But why, in the first place, its predecessor, \xa0the 1987 Brundtland initiative on “sustainable development” failed? Was it due to mere technical error in “economic design” and “old-fashioned” economic view? Was there a reasonable consensus among the international community on the initiative? What lessons were learnt from its failure? But above all, what is the logic behind setting up “International agendas”?'], ['The Brundtland Report on “sustainable development” had been severely criticized on different grounds. The gist of the criticisms can be summed up in the allegations that it was conceived to advance primarily the concerns and interests of the dominant global powers; its program components failed to incorporate the needs and interests of the people of the developing nations; subsequently, it was an imposition of the agenda of the rich and more powerful nations on the rest of the world.'], ['These indictments all illustrate the fact that the 1987 Brundtland “sustainable development” initiative, to begin with, was not an all-out undertaking of the larger international community.\xa0 Unsurprisingly, it was shrouded with deep discontents and disagreements. Discontent on the initiative was not limited only to the developing world. The countless in-fighting and walkouts observed on subsequent conventions even by advanced countries, as seen in the 1997 Kyoto Protocol convention on reduction of Co2 emissions, well testify that the initiative was not at all an all-embracing and truly unifying “international agenda”.'], ['Thus, the idea that the Brundtland Report on “sustainable development” failed due to an alleged “deficiency” in economic understanding and error in “economic design” seems to be an argument quite on shaky ground.'], ['Unfortunately the recent UN report on sustainability that has promised to address the problem of its predecessor appears to have stood not on a much different ground of agreement either. Still the international community has not come to a point of common understanding when it comes to the nature and the magnitude of the problem and the corresponding measures of solutions.'], ['So what is the guarantee that it will be spared from the risk of failure any differently from its predecessor?'], ['The conception of a grand global vision such as this sort had better be on the comprehensive and thorough analysis of both the strengths and weaknesses of the preceding scheme. The most important lesson that could be drawn from the Brudtland Report is the success or failure of any plan that demands a definite international action, first and foremost, must seek to establish an all-out consensus that could possibly be achieved.'], ['Of course, attaining such type of consensus is not a simple task. Above all, it requires the will and determination to employ the most noble and valuable human qualities of sympathetic understanding, compassion and the ability to compromise individual interests for the good of the whole.'], ['Unfortunately, the records of past experiences in this matter quite vividly show an utter negligence in mobilizing this indispensable human asset. Rather, most hitherto set up so-called “international agendas” have been the unfortunate outcomes of a rather intense competition, struggle and infighting to register as much as possible the narrow and selfish interests of a few nation states.'], ['For almost every other nation in the world acting solely to maximize one’s selfish parochial and national interest is often regarded as a received wisdom and unquestionable norm of actions. For some countries it is unhesitatingly, and quite explicitly, declared foreign policy.'], ['In the classic “Hobbesian-world” of insistent rivalry and competition, the rule of the game is mainly guided by the Darwinian motto of “survival of the fittest”. As things stand now, nation-states differ from each other quite significantly in their respective endowment of relative power and influences on the world stage. Therefore, what counts most is the ability of the state to force its needs and interests into the seemingly prospective “international agenda”.'], ['Unsurprisingly, at the end of the day it is the interest and concern of the relatively more powerful states that ultimately prevails. The formula in operation is framed not in a win-win, but in a win-lose scenario. No wonder that issues of justice, fairness and equality are just afterthoughts in the agendas of not too few international initiatives.'], ['I feel such taken-for-granted conventional wisdom has to be questioned and critically examined. Given the fact that we are now living in a much more complex world with extremely divergent human needs, concerns and environmental challenges, relying on the “global vision” of a handful of scientists with limited information, narrow specialist knowledge and questionable neutrality will be a fatal mistake. It would be much more prudent if we are to undertake a comprehensive and wide-ranging discussions and deliberations across a spectrum of societies and nations while forging an international mechanism of actions on matters that puts at stake the collective wellbeing of humanity and the sustenance of life in our planet.'], ['The stumbling block in this state of affairs is mainly a confused and weakened sense of human consciousness which fails to recognize the wholeness of life. Our present view is characterized mainly by limited state of thinking rooted in fear, scarcity, pessimism, hate and competition which has resulted in isolationist and inward-directed behavior. In the face of such negative state of consciousness, a truly cooperative endeavor for the advancement of mutual concern and interest will be merely a wishful thinking.'], ['The more promising way out of the quagmire of self-defeating attitude and mentality and the more realistic means for the realization of the latest report by the UN of \xa0a “…resilient people and resilient planet…” apparently doesn’t seem to lie in a mere change of “economic design” and “paradigm shift” on how to do economic business; but rather in a more meaningful transformation of human consciousness in a way that it fully recognizes the wholeness, interconnectedness and the indispensable ultimate unity of life in our planet; and that eventually enhances our will and capacity of cooperation for initiating and undertaking an “international agenda” in its most true sense.'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}, {'Date': 'May 8, 2012', 'Header': 'Rationality in technological choices', 'news_paragraphs': [['The use of technology helps us ease the burdens of doing things the hard way. But it is more meaningful when used at the right time in the right way'], ['Taye Negussie (Phd)'], ['Ordinarily, we resort to the aid of modern technologies to carry out different tasks: \xa0for production purpose, service provision, transporting of people or goods, or leisure activities. But, why do we employ modern technologies? What are the forces which induce us to employ modern technologies? What do we gain if we employ them and what do we lose if we don’t? Do we really foresee the pros and cons of our technological choices?'], ['Currently we are flooded with infinite amount of state-of-the art technological devices and appliances and are bombarded with powerful advertisements on a daily base. The concern for our immediate financial profit is seen dominating any other human values we have. our well-informed and rational decisions over the choice of technology we employ hasn’t become more indispensable than it is now.'], ['Technology and culture '], ['What we often consider as modern technology is the usage and application of the ideas and devices of modern sciences. The overriding rationale underlying the use and employment of technology is the presumption that in the short-run it would boost productivity (by cutting down the time and energy costs); and in the long-run it is bound to enrich general human experience–physical, intellectual, emotional as well as spiritual.'], ['Every type of technology consists of two highly interwoven aspects: the Material aspect, constituting the technical hardware, the machinery and equipment; and the Non-material aspect, representing the expertise, skills, knowledge, techniques and organizational experience and processes.'], ['Sociologists underscore the inseparability of these two aspects in the endeavor to build an effective and well-functioning society. In their view, any eventuality of incompatibility between these two aspects is bound to yield undesirable state of culture most liable for squander of resources.'], ['When the material aspect of culture comes ahead of the non-material, a negative state of culture known as cultural-lag ensues. This is mainly manifested in the inability to make effective use of the technological assets and resources on hand. Similarly, when the non-material aspect comes ahead of the material one another undesirable state of culture known as culture-lead arises. It is a situation characterized by failure to translate scientific theories and ideas into action or material form. '], ['\xa0Forces of technology adoption'], ['There are many forces which tempt us to seek the aid of modern technology. Manufacturers and traders make their utmost efforts through advertisements and other means to dispose their technological inventory. Government policies and programs, prevailing values, attitudes and mode of life or fashion, personal tastes and preferences as well as peer pressure also do play their own part in influencing our judgment and decision on the need and usage of technological devices.'], ['More often than not, unsubstantiated common sense judgment appears to dictate our choice of technology.\xa0 For instance, we tend to believe that every modern and latest technology has to be more efficient. But, not necessarily so. Professor Jeffrey D. Sachs of Columbia University, for example, says current use of automobile, presumably one of the modern means of transport technologies, is arguably the least efficient one. In his calculation, “we move around 1000 to 2000 kilograms of machinery to transport only one or just a few people each weighing perhaps 75 kilograms”.'], ['Asides from efficiency, technology also ought to be assessed in terms of other criteria such as that of relevance: whether it is the appropriate and timely technology for the current need, knowledge, resource, or organizational experience of the society in question.'], ['Adverse consequences of ‘untimely’ technologies '], ['What inspired this piece was my recent research trip to West Arsi Zone of Oromia Regional State in South Eastern Ethiopia. It was quite a surprise to see how widely the peasants in the area employ the services of modern, sophisticated agricultural machineries such as tractors and combine harvesters by renting at overpriced rates.'], ['Be that as it may, however, what has been evidently transpiring in the community in the wake of the wide-spread use of these complex modern agricultural technologies?'], ['The famous claim in economics is the idea that the application of modern technologies would reduce the costs of production and raise level of productivity. But, none of these claims seem to have been realized in the localities. On the contrary, rather the costs of production reportedly shot up in multifold resulting in inflated grain prices. Understandably, this may be due to the fact that these expensive new machineries have been used on the same fragments of farmlands previously cultivated by cheap human labor. Furthermore, instead of being transformed to other productive industrial activities as witnessed in advanced countries, the agricultural “surplus” laborers supposedly released by the application of the new machinery were made idle and redundant, often spending their spare time on destructive lifestyles.'], ['On top of this, some other unexpected and unforeseen social ills seem to surfacing in the community. To mention just a few: the erosion of the work ethics (due to the idleness created by the use of machineries); the multiplication of formerly non-existent middle men or brokers in tandem with the machinery operating business; \xa0the spread of corruption in a bid to get priority for the machinery and being rescued from treachery actions allegedly performed by the machine operators in the course of operation; on farm spot sales of crop harvests at cheaper prices which seems to be undermining the wise traditional grain management practices resulting in reckless economic behavior and the subsequent onset of discord and conflicts among family members.'], ['Ways forward'], ['In short, what the above episode or observation evidences is the eventuality of unexpected dire consequences due to the use of technology way far removed from the immediate need, priority, resources, experience and expertise of the community and beyond. Thus, any consideration for introduction or adoption of a prospective modern technology must essentially be made in light of a thoughtful and serious examination of the prevailing economic, social, cultural and institutional framework of the society concerned. Of all, the observation signifies the primacy and indispensability of individuals and communities to be realistic and rational decision makers in all matters which concern their lives.'], ['Taye Negussie (PhD) is an Assistant Professor of Sociology at Addis Ababa University. He can be reached at tayesosa@yahoo.com'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}]
[{'Date': 'March 1, 2012', 'Header': 'The toll of ‘moral underdevelopment’', 'news_paragraphs': [['“…moral development is highly informative in making sense of what is going on around us today. As evident in our political, professional, and daily social life, while those hypocrite, wicked and inept individuals are well embraced and granted significant public positions simply on account of their mere submissiveness, loyalty, affinity and relatedness; in contrast, those highly enlightened, independent-minded, and decent individuals are, by and large, alienated…”'], ['Taye Negussie (PHD)'], ['\xa0One of the ironical developments evident in today’s world is the unfolding of grave social injustices – discrimination, abject poverty, inequality, and alienation–at the time when the world has registered unprecedented levels of material prosperity and technological achievements.'], [''], ['Some scholars attempted to associate these otherwise unlikely parallel developments to some technical faults in running the economic and political machineries; however, the real nature of the problem is quite complex and is indisputably rooted in the pervasiveness of deficiencies in moral values and characters emanating largely from psychological naivety as well as the malfunctioning of major social institutions such as government, family, religion, school and community among others.'], ['As a matter of fact the quality of life we often aspire to achieve (a happier and more fulfilled life), is impingent upon the extent to which the moral values we uphold both as individual citizens as well as collective entities realize the ideals of social justice, freedom and equality.'], ['Unfortunately, our understanding of morality and moral values which is indispensable in illuminating the critical problems of social injustice that we currently face such as what caused them? where are we heading? and most importantly, how can we control them?\xa0 is dangerously limited.'], ['Philosophers define moral values as part of values (that we deem worthy) which applies to human conduct. In the course of the pursuit of our life, some of us are more inclined to place premium on maximizing pleasure and avoiding pain while the rest of us tend to regard virtues (living in truth, and honesty) as worthwhile in itself that ought to be pursued even at great personal inconvenience.'], ['Psychologist Lawrence Kholberg is one of those prominent scholars who have shed some light on our understanding of the nature and characteristics of morality prevalent in a given society. According to him, individuals pass through three levels of moral development: the pre-conventional level, the conventional level, and the post-conventional level.\xa0 In his view, at the pre-conventional level people exhibit “unquestioning obedience” to the power that be and care only for the satisfaction of their individual needs. With such people, the concepts of “fairness”, “justice”, and “loyalty” are utterly non-existent. Any action is taken in the “instrumental sense” –“You scratch my back, and I will scratch yours”. \xa0The distinguishing features of these people are excessive hypocrisy, servitude and weak character.'], ['At the conventional level, the overriding concern of individuals is to live by the conventions, customs and laws prevailing at the moment no matter what their contents may be. Credulity and blind faith are the hallmarks of these individuals. For them what matters most is intention rather than consequences of actions. Thus, racism may be wrong, but one shouldn’t protest against it for it leads to social chaos. This view of morality undoubtedly commits the fallacy of logic – “what is”, “ought to be “, too.'], ['In Kholberg’s view, the post-conventional level is characterized by higher values and the questioning of the existing system in the light of social utility and such abstract principles as justice and human dignity. People at this level are highly enlightened endowed with sound and critical judgment; alas, they are often a rarity in many societies.'], ['Kholberg’s theoretical framework of moral development is highly informative in making sense of what is going on around us today. As evident in our political, professional, and daily social life, while those hypocrite, wicked and inept individuals are well embraced and granted significant public positions simply on account of their mere submissiveness, loyalty, affinity and relatedness; in contrast, those highly enlightened, independent-minded, and decent individuals are, by and large, alienated and unjustly denied to fulfill their rightful roles in the society. Sadly enough, all this happens at the expense of the larger public interest.'], ['‘Moral underdevelopment’–which I define as a situation symptomatic of the preponderance of the pre–and conventional levels’ moral views as well as the absence or rarity of moral behavior at the post–conventional level in Kholberg’s schema of moral development is indeed a global phenomenon; however, it takes its worst tolls in Africa.'], ['In my view, the politics of totalitarianism, quite wide-spread in the continent, takes the lion’s share for deepening and expounding the problem. In their desperate attempt to cling onto power as long as possible, totalitarian regimes in Africa (led by morally corrupt politicians infested with negative attitude of hatred and prejudice) strive hard to manipulate and multiply the number of individuals found at the pre-conventional and conventional levels while weakening and subsequently banishing those at the post-conventional level, supposedly their archetypal “enemies”.'], ['The most common strategies employed by these seemingly ‘absolutist states’ to implement their totalitarian rule are: implement the ’politics of hatred’–an ideological project bent at brainwashing and blinding people with prejudices and hatred– and engage in the ‘politics of fear’–exercised through enacting oppressive and draconian laws and rules.'], ['It is, therefore, no wonder that the African people suffered exceptionally from the inevitable consequences of ‘moral underdevelopment’ manifested primarily in the deepening of such social ills as abject poverty, profound inequality, wide-spread social, economic and political injustices, conservative ideologies (such as religious and ethnic fundamentalism) which may eventually lead to the disintegration and ultimately the break-up of the social fabric of the society.'], ['Thus, unless some corrective measures are taken in time both at individual as well as societal levels, the ominous consequences of the ever deepening ‘moral underdevelopment’ are bound to be irreversible. In this regard, I would suggest the following as some initial steps worthy of consideration.\xa0 Scrutinizing the existing moral values and reinstituting the most constructive and positive ones; redefining, reorganizing and reorienting the currently operating institutions and norms; instituting good-governance and substantive democracy (as opposed to formalistic democracy); empowering communities; and, encouraging private individuals to actively engage in self-education and development programs so as to replace ignorance with knowledge, and credulity with critical judgment.'], ['The writer is Associate Professor of Sociology at the Addis Ababa University. He can be reached at tayesosa@yahoo.com'], ['Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.'], ['\n* Copy This Password *'], ['\n* Type Or Paste Password Here *'], [' \n\n']]}]
